Jayashree Sarathy, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Jayashree Sarathy, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Biology BenU Faculty since 2007 Ph.D. - Physiology, University of Illinois at Chicago, IL (1999) M.Phil - Crystallography and Biophysics, University of Madras, India (1991) M.S. - Biophysics, University of Madras, India (1990) B.S. - Physics, University of Madras, India (1988) Courses TaughtUndergraduate Level BIOL 258 Human Physiology BIOL 259 Human Physiology Lab BIOL 391 Pathophysiology: Special topics BIOL 340 Cell Biology BIOL 150 Biology of Women Graduate Level EXPH 591/HLSC 392 Exercise Biochemistry EXPH 560/NUTR 560/HLSC 360 Advanced Cardiovascular and Respiratory Physiology Awards and Recognitions: Dean's Award for Teaching Excellence by an Adjunct Faculty 2010Research Area My research interests are to elucidate, at a molecular level, the processes that modulate ion transport across epithelial cells. Epithelia, such as those lining the gastrointestinal tract, are multi-faceted and complex. For example, salt and water transport along the length of the intestine needs to be tightly regulated for normal function, and aberrations can result in some of the most devastating forms of diarrhea in a variety of species. Regulation of ion and water transport is also important in the mammary epithelia and aid with milk secretion. Therefore, studying the cellular and molecular regulation of ion transport by hormones, chemicals and drugs is important in defining fundamental physiological processes of fluid absorption and secretion, which can pertain to epithelial cells from mammalian mammary to the colonic epithelial cells. Model systems such as the human colon carcinoma cell-line (T84 cells) and mouse mammary epithelial cells (HC11) are used in these studies. Current Research Projects Does bile acid modulate tight junction to increase paracellular permeability? Cells will be grown on inserts to form a monolayer, challenged with various doses of bile acid. Transepithelial resistance will be measured using anelectrical resistance system and paracellular permeability measured via mucosal to basolateral flux of 10-kDa fluorescence tagged dextran. Is the drop in resistance due to cytotoxic effects of bile acids? This will be assessed by measuring lactate dehydrogenase activity in the supernatant of cells treated with various doses of bile acids. Cytotoxicity is indicated if the LDH activity is increases in the solution. This is measured using a colorimetric assay.PublicationsBooks/Chapters Published Integrated Systems Physiology: Intestinal Absorption and Secretion by Rao, MC, Sarathy J, and Ao M, Publisher: Morgan and Claypool Life sciences, NJ. e-Book.Venkatasubramanian J, Rao MC, and Sellin JH. Intestinal electrolyte absorption and secretion in Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, Management, 9th edition, Chapter 99, (2010).Papers Published (Graduate and undergraduate students and Research Specialists mentored are italicized) Anantamongol U, Ao M, Sarathy J (nee Venkatasubrmanian), Devi S, Krishnamra N, and Rao MC. Prolactin and Dexamethasone Regulate Second Messenger-Stimulated Cl Secretion in Mammary Epithelia. Journal of Signal Transduction, Volume 2012 (2012), Article ID 192142, 15 pages. doi: 10.1155/2012/192142.Ao M, Venkatasubramanian J, Ganesan Syed, Benya RV and Rao MC. Lubiprostone Activates Cl Secretion by Increasing CFTR in Apical Membrane in the Human Colon Carcinoma Cell Line, T84, Digestive Diseases in Science, 2011, 56(2):339-51. Liu H, Singla A, Ao M, Gill RK, Venkatasubramanian J, Rao MC, Alrefai WA, Dudeja PK. Calcitonin Receptor-Mediated CFTR Activation in Human Intestinal Epithelial Cells J Cell Mol Med.; 2011; 10.1111/j.1582-4934.Venkatasubramanian, J., Ao, M., and Rao M.C. Ion transport in the small intestine Current Opinions Gastroenterology, 2010 Mar;26(2):123-8.Maria A Carlos, Chimnoya Nwagwu, Mei Ao, J Venkatasubramanian, Roli Prasad, Shamim Khan Chowdhury, Dharmapuri Vidyasagar, Mrinalini C Rao, Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) stimulates chloride transport in primary cultures of weanling and adult rabbit colonocytes, Journal of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, 44: 300-311, 2007. Prasad, R., Venkatasubramanian, J., Amde, M., and Rao, M.C. Phospholipase C and src tyrosine kinases mediate neurotensin-stimulated Cl- secretion in rabbit proximal colon. Digestive Disease Sciences 49:1318-1326, 2004.Venkatasubramanian, J., Nataraja, S. G., Carlos, M., Skaluba, S., Rasenick, M.M.R. and Rao, M. C. Differences in calcium signaling underlie age-specific effects of secretagogues on colonic chloride transport, 2001, American Journal Physiology: Cell Physiology, 280, 646-658. (Among Top 50 most read paper in month of Oct 2008)Venkatasubramanian, J., Sahi, J., and Rao, M.C. Ion transport during growth and differentiaton, 2000, Annals of New York Academy of Sciences, 915, 357-372. G. N. Desai, J. Sahi, P. M. Reddy, J. Venkatasubramanian, D. Vidyasagar, M. C. Rao., Chloride transport in primary cultures of rabbit colonocytes at different stages of development, 1996, Gastroenterology; 111, 1541-1550. Peer-reviewed Abstracts *Ao M, Sarathy J (nee Venkatasubramanian), Domingue J, Mathew J, Alrefai WA, Rao MC, ^Contributed equally, Chenodeoxycholic Acid (CDCA) Stimulates Cl- Secretion Across the Apical Membrane of Human Colonic Epithelial Cells, T84, via cAMP Signaling and Increases in the Phosphorylation of CFTR., May 2012, Poster Presentation in Digestive Diseases Week, San Diego *J Sarathy (nee Venkatasubramanian), M Ao, J Syed, W. A Alrefai, MC Rao, Bile acid-induced Cl secretion involves cytoskeleton and activation of CFTR in colonic epithelial cells, T84., May 2011, Poster Presentation in Digestive Diseases Week, Chicago. Birck 339 | 630-829-6580 jsarathy@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestLindsey Mao, Ph.D.Lee Ann Smith, Ph.D.Philip Novack-Gottshall, Ph.D. University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
