Ellen Ziliak, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Ellen Ziliak, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Mathematics, Department Chair for Computer Science and Mathematics BenU faculty since 2010 Ph.D., Colorado State University (2010) M.S., Colorado State University (2006) B.S., University of Evansville (2004)Courses Taught Calculus with Analytics I, Calculus with Analytics II, Abstract Algebra I, Mathematical Research Research Area Computational Group Theory, Graph Theory, Number Theory and the use of technology in the classroom Current Research Magic Graphs and Quasigroups: A Quasigroup is a set of elements with a binary operation whose multiplication table forms a Latin square. Latin squares are precisely what you get when you solve a Sudoku game. A Latin square is in a class of special combinatorial objects called magic squares. In fact a Latin square is a semimagic square. In graph theory semimagic squares can be identified with a super magic labeling of the complete bipartite graph on n points. In group theory a graph which describes the multiplication table for a group is called a Cayley Graph. Unfortunately for quasigroups it seems that many different Cayley graphs can be constructed for one quasigroup. In this project I want to study these super magic labeled graphs to see if one can use them to construct a graph similar to the Cayley Graph for a group. The hope is that this new graph would be more useful for answering several questions about quasigroups. Cryptography and Quasigroups: A quasigroup is a set of elements with a binary operation whose multiplication table forms a Latin square. Latin squares are precisely what you get when you solve a Sudoku game. These algebraic structures have applications in many areas including the field of Cryptography. Cryptography is the study of secure communication when a third party is present. Recently quasigroups have been used in several cryptographic applications including Message Authentication Codes. In this project we will continue the work of a former student to study properties of this algebraic object to determine why quasigroups are useful in this field. Cryptography in Group Theory: Public key cryptosystems have been used for secure communication between two parties. This system is used most often when the two individuals who wish to communicate have not met prior to the communication. It is used often in online transactions. Most of the algorithms currently used rely on modular arithmetic in Zp however the need to ensure security has led to explorations in the field of noncommutative groups. In this project we will study how noncommutative groups are used for developing new approaches and study several of the open questions associated with their use.The Algebra of Rewriting: In mathematics, one method of defining a group is by a presentation. Every group has a presentation. A presentation is often the most compact way of describing the structure of the group. However there are also some difficulties that arise when working with groups in this form. One of the problems is called the word problem which is an algorithmic problem of deciding whether two words represent the same element. I want to study the word problem on group extensions. Currently there is a procedure called coset enumeration which can be used to address this problem, however it has difficulties with memory when the groups reach a certain size. In this project we will continue the work of a former student to compute in the group extension using a modified coset enumeration technique. This method is derived using the Cayley graphs for the two smaller groups. Recent Publications Ellen Ziliak An algorithm to express words as a product of conjugates of relators, in Computational and Combinatorial Group Theory and Cryptography, Contemporary Mathematics, vol. 582, Amer. Math. Soc., Providence, RI, 2012, pp. 187-199. Thomas G Wangler and Ellen M Ziliak, Increasing Student Engagement and Extending the Walls of the Classroom with Emerging Technologies, in Research Perspectives and Best Practices in Educational Technology Integration, IGI Global, Hershey, PA, 2013, pp. 44-60. Birck 126 | 630-829-6594 eziliak@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestBill Carvell, Ph.D.Tiara Perez Morales, Ph.D.Leigh Anne Harden, Ph.D. University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
