Casey Larsen, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Casey Larsen, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Chemistry Education: Ph.D. Chemistry, University of California, San Diego - San Diego State University Joint Doctoral Program - 2012 B.S. Biology; Minor: Chemistry, San Diego State University - 2004 Courses Taught: Organic Chemistry Lecture and Laboratory, General Chemistry, Organometallic Chemistry, Introduction to Biochemistry, and Honors General Chemistry Laboratory Research Interest: Transition metal-catalyzed isomerization of alkenes, which involves the atom economical migration of carbon-carbon double bonds. The challenges to be met include: positional and stereochemical selectivity, substrate generality, and simplicity of catalyst use. Alkene isomerization is an important process in the chemical industry that contributes to many applications, including the SHOP process, DuPonts adiponitrile process, Takasago synthesis of (-)-menthol, and for the synthesis of fragrances, to name a few. Students will learn techniques in organic synthesis to synthesize parts of the catalyst and organic substrates for catalysis; organometallic synthesism to make the catalyst; and molecule characterization to analyze the synthesized compounds and products made during catalysis. Students will not only perform chemistry in open air, but will be exposed to air free techniques (Schlenk techniques and glove box). Project 1: Synthesis of Royal Jelly Royal Jelly is a natural product synthesized by worker bees as a form of nutrition for the queen bee in a colony, where this compound has been reported to have pharmacological properties. The current synthetic route requires 6 steps for its completion. We are seeking a more economical approach to its synthesis. Project 2: Synthesis of Pheromones Pheromones are signaling molecules naturally synthesized by organisms as a social cue to impact social behaviors. Harnessing unique reactivity using the alkene isomerization catalyst has the potential to lead to a class of Lepidopteran pheromones. Project 3: Construction of a Catalytically Active Metal Organic Framework (MOF) Metal Organic Frameworks (MOFs for short) are a subclass of polymeric compounds. Organic scaffolds are linked together with structural metals to form 3-dimensional structures that have pores for molecules, solvent or substrates, to move in and out of the structure. With the right organic scaffold linker, we have the potential of making a new class of catalysts using organometallic synthesis. Patents Douglas Grotjahn, Casey Larsen, Gulin Erdogan, Erik Paulson. Terminal Alkene MonoIsomerization Catalysts and Methods, US Patent, 2017, 9,708,236. Recent Publications: Casey R. Larsen and Douglas B. Grotjahn.* The Value and Application of Transition Metal Catalyzed Alkene Isomerization In Industry Applied Homogeneous Catalysis with Organometallic Compounds: A Comprehensive Handbook in Three Volumes; Boy Cornils, Wolfgang A. Herrmann, Matthias Beller, and Rocco Paciello, Eds.; Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA. Third Edition, 2018, pages 1365-1378 Jeffrey Camacho-Bunquin,* Magali Ferrandon, Uggal Das, Fulya Dogan, Cong Liu, Casey R. Larsen, Ana E. Platero-Prats, Larry A. Curtiss, Adam S. Hok, Jeffrey T. Miller, SonBinh T. Nguyen, Christopher L. Marshall, Massimiliano Delferro, and Peter C. Stair. Supported Aluminum Catalysts for Olefin Hydrogenation ACS Catal. 2016, 7, 689. Casey R.Larsen, Erik R. Paulson, Gulin Erdogan, and Douglas B. Grotjahn.* A Facile, Convenient, and Green Route to (E)-Propenylbenzene Flavors and Fragrances by Alkene Isomerization Synlett, 2015, 26, 2462. Douglas B. Grotjahn, Casey R. Larsen, and Gulin Erdogan. Bifunctional catalyst control of alkene isomerization Topics in Catalysis, 2014, 57, 1483. Graham E. Dobereiner, Gulin Erdogan, Casey R. Larsen, Douglas B. Grotjahn, Richard R. Schrock. A One-Pot Tandem Olefin Isomerization/Metathesis-Coupling Reaction. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 3069 Casey R. Larsen, Gulin Erdogan, and Douglas B. Grotjahn. General catalyst control of the monoisomerization of 1-alkenes to trans-2-alkenes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 1226. Casey R. Larsen and Douglas B. Grotjahn.* Stereoselective Alkene Isomerization Over One Position. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 10357. Birck 329 | 630-829-6570 clarsen@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestBill Carvell, Ph.D.Tiara Perez Morales, Ph.D.Leigh Anne Harden, Ph.D. University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
