Anthony DeLegge, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Anthony DeLegge, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Mathematics BenU faculty since 2010 Ph.D., University of Nebraska-Lincoln (2010) B.S., Benedictine University (2005) Courses Taught Calculus with Analytics, Calculus with Analytics Laboratory, Calculus for Life Sciences, Mathematical Research Research Area Math biology, including ecological problems with financial analogs and epidemiology Current Research Projects "An Epidemic Model with a Multi-Stage Vaccine" This project will be a continuation of work done with Reema Khatri, Kiran Munir, and Katie Hunzinger over the past two summers. So far, we have constructed mathematical models to help us study the spread of a disease through a population such that immunity can be given through a series of multiple vaccines. A perfect example of such a disease would be Hepatitis B, which requires three vaccines for immunity. Up to this point, however, we have proven that, assuming the population has births and deaths, it is not possible to completely eradicate a disease unless the disease was going to die out anyway. So, this summer, I hope to extend this to looking at repeating the vaccination cycle numerous times and/or changing how the vaccine is given so that we can kill the disease off, or even better, suppress it for a longer period of time. If time permits, we may also try to build in more realistic contact patterns. "A Model for Disease Spread With Different Susceptibility Levels" For some diseases, such as the common cold, it really seems like certain individuals just have a much better chance of getting sick than others (or even not getting sick at all!) when coming into contact with an infected individual. This project will concern constructing and studying a model for disease spread such that people are placed into different susceptibility groups, where some groups are more likely to get sick by coming into contact with infectives than others, and some people may even have full immunity to the disease. Specifically, we want to study how sensitive the spread of disease throughout a population is based on how the make-up of the susceptible groups is. That is, if one group is pretty much the driver toward having a disease become endemic, can we quarantine the group (or some similar strategy) to stop the spread of the disease?"Monopoly: The Speed Die" Monopoly is arguably one of the world's most popular board games. It is so popular that, every so often, a world championship tournament is held. In the past tournament, however, a new rule was introduced, which has also made its way into the home game: the "Speed Die." Rolling the speed die not only, as its name suggests, speeds up the game play, but it can also affect strategy greatly. A player could simply move extra spaces with it, could have the choice to move using only one die as opposed to two, or end up getting to purchase two properties in a single turn (or, even worse, paying rent on two properties in a single turn). The strategy for the classic game of Monopoly has been extensively studied, but this project will investigate if those strategies are still the best ones to do when playing with the "Speed Die." If time permits, we will also investigate playing under tournament rules (games are timed) to see if those strategies should be adapted in the tournament setting at all. Birck 127 | 630-829-6556 adelegge@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestBill Carvell, Ph.D.Tiara Perez Morales, Ph.D.Leigh Anne Harden, Ph.D. University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
