Manu Kaur, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Manu Kaur, Ph.D. Professor, Mathematics BenU faculty since 2001 Ph.D., University of Illinois (2001) M.Phil, University of Delhi, India (1991) Courses Taught Calculus with Analytics I, II, and III, Business Calculus, College Trigonometry, Discrete Mathematics, Introduction to Cryptology, Real Analysis I and II, The Mathematical Universe (for liberal arts general education), Mathematical Research Awards and Recognitions: Dean's Award for Service William B. Scholl Endowed Science Professorial Chair Exxon-Mobil MAA Project NExT Fellow University Activities Faculty Advisor, Indian Student Association Co-Chair, Faculty Colloquium Member, Scholar's Portfolio Review Committee Member, Advisory Council on Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Action Member, Interfaith Cooperation Committee Member, Teach-In Organizing Committee Research Interests Functional Analysis, Operator Theory, Cryptology, Use of Technology in Mathematics Education, Applications of Mathematics, and Humanistic Mathematics Current Research Fractals, Chaos and dynamical Systems: Fractals are self-similar images that follow a simple rule infinitely. In nature they can be observed in ferns, coastlines, etc. Dynamical Systems are systems that change with time, for example population. Chaos Theory is a branch of mathematics that studies the behavior of dynamical systems. These topics have applications to finance, life sciences, meteorology, engineering, physics and other fields. Quantum Information Systems: This topic is at the intersection of quantum information systems, analysis and linear algebra. Cryptology: Methods of cryptology allow secure message transfer, key exchange, digital signatures, and more. In the current day setting of high speed internet and fast computations, these methods have revolutionized communications through email, ecommerce, etc. Real Analysis: I am interested in the study of limit processes, and other ground breaking concepts such as zero, infinity, fractals, Fibonacci numbers, golden ratio, etc., that have changed the course of history. Selected Publications M. Kaur and T. Wangler- Parametric Surfaces Competition: Using Technology to Foster Creativity, The International Journal for Technology in Mathematics Education (IJTME) Vol. 21, No. 2, 2014. M. Kaur- Cryptography as a Pedagogical Tool, PRIMUS Volume 18, Issue 2, 2008. M. Kaur- Using Technology to Discover the First Derivative Rule in Multivariable Calculus, PRIMUS, March 2006. M. Kaur and Z-J. Ruan- Local Properties of Ternary Rings of Operators and their Linking C*-algebras. Journal of Functional Analysis, 195, 262-305, 2002. National Committees Member, Steering Committee, 14th International Congress in Mathematics Education, Shanghai, China Feb 1, 2019 - January 31, 2021 Member at Large, AMS Committee on Education Feb 1, 2016 Jan 31, 2019 Member, MAA Committee on Technologies in Mathematics Education (CTME) Feb 1, 2016 Jan 31, 2022 Member, MAA Committee on Travel Study Programs of the Mathematical Association of America 2009 2014. AWM (Association for Women in Mathematics) Mentor, since 2004 Birck 123 | 630-829-6558 mkaur@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestBill Carvell, Ph.D.Tiara Perez Morales, Ph.D.Leigh Anne Harden, Ph.D. University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
