Allison Wilson, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Allison Wilson, Ph.D. Professor, Biology, Director, Master of Science in Science Content and Process BenU Faculty since (1997) Argonne National Laboratory (1993-1998) Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Chicago (1990-1992) Ph.D., University of Illinois at Chicago (1990) B.S., Iowa State University (1980) Courses Taught Endocrinology, Cell Biology, Physiology, Cell Labs Quantitative Biology Lab for Transfer Students Awards and Recognitions Judith Ann Whinfrey Award for Leadership 2013 Dean's Award for Innovation 2013 Dean's Award for Leadership 2009 Research Area Cellular Physiology of Environmental Estrogens on Bone Cells Current Research Osteoblasts and osteoclasts, bone-forming and bone-resorbing cells, respectively, mediate growth, modeling, remodeling, and repair of bone. The adult skeleton routinely undergoes remodeling in response to physical, hormonal, and metabolic stresses. In normal bone homeostasis, there is no net gain or loss of bone. However, uncoupling of the remodeling process by increasing osteoclastic activity without increasing bone formation to the same extent, can lead to bone loss. The objective of my research program is to determine mechanisms by which cadmium causes bone loss. Animal studies indicate that bone loss responses occur at blood cadmium concentrations in the range of levels reported for persons who smoke cigarettes and for workers with low-level cadmium exposure in industry. Cadmium-induced bone loss is also more pronounced in animals that have experienced increased bone stress such as estrogen deficiency, suggesting that women exposed to cadmium are at increased risk for postmenopausal osteoporosis. To investigate cellular mechanisms for the increased activity of the resident osteoclast population in response to cadmium exposure, cultured cell lines and primary bone cell cultures are used to study the motility, the signals for apoptosis, and the signal transduction involved with cytoskeletal reorganization that must occur when an osteoclast changes from a motile configuration to a resorbing configuration. Cell migration assays, chemotactic assays, cell viability assays, microscopic examination of immunohistochemically or fluorescently-labeled cells, gel electrophoresis, western blotting, and RT-PCR are some of the techniques used in these investigations. SELECTED PUBLICATIONS (*denotes undergraduates as co-authors) Regunathan, A., Glesne, D.A., Wilson, A.K., Song, J., Nicolae, D., *Flores, T., and M.H. Bhattacharyya. Microarray analysis of changes in bone cell gene expression early after cadmium gavage in mice. Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol., 191:272-293, 2003. Brako EE, Wilson AK, Jonah MM, Blum CA, Cerny EA, Williams KL, Bhattacharyya MH. Cadmium pathways during gestation and lactation in control versus metallothoinein 1,2-knockout mice. Toxicol Sci. 71(2):154-63, 2003. Bhattacharyya, M.H., Wilson, A.K., and Rajan, S.S. Biochemical pathways in cadmium toxicity. In Molecular Biology and Toxicology of Metals, R.K.Zalups and D.J. Koropatanick (eds.), Taylor and Francis Publishers, 2001. *Blum, C.A., Wilson, A. K., and Bhattacharyya, M.H. A nest box to facilitate excreta collection from mouse dams through pregnancy, parturition, and lactation. Contemp.Topics in Lab. An. Sci., 38:71-77, 1999. Bhattacharyya, M.H., *Blum, C.A., and Wilson, A.K. The role of metallothionein in cadmium-induced bone resorption. In Metallothionein IV. C. Klassen, ed., Birkhauser Verlag, Basel, Switzerland, pp. 473-476, 1999. Wilson, A.K., Bhattacharyya, M.H., Miller, S., *Mani, A. and Sacco-Gibson, N. Ovariectomy-induced changes in aged beagles: histomorphometry of rib cortical bone. Calcif. Tissue Int., 62: 237-243, 1998. Wilson, A.K. and Bhattacharyya, M.H. Effects of cadmium on bone: An in vivo model for the early response. Toxicol. Appl. Pharm., 145: 68-73, 1997 Wilson, A.K., Cerny, E.A., *Smith, B.D., *Wagh, A., and Bhattacharyya, M.H. Effects of cadmium on osteoclast formation and activity in vitro. Tox. Appl. Pharm., 140: 451- 460, 1996. Bhattacharyya, M.H., Wilson, A.K., Silbergeld, E.K., Watson, L. and Jeffery, E. Metal-induced osteotoxicities. In Metal Toxicology. R.A. Goyer, ed., Academic Press, Inc. San Diego, pp.465-510, 1995. Birck 319 | 630-829-6520 awilson@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestBill Carvell, Ph.D.Tiara Perez Morales, Ph.D.Jo Wilson Leadership Institute University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
