Christos Argyropoulos | College of Engineering | University of NebraskaLincoln Skip to main content University of NebraskaLincoln Visit Visit Visit the College of Engineering Visit the University of NebraskaLincoln Apply Apply Apply to the College of Engineering Apply to the University of NebraskaLincoln Give Give Give to the College of Engineering Give to the University of NebraskaLincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close College of Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Menu Search Log In About ECEFaculty and Staff Locations / Facilities Campus Information Advisory Board Editing Services Employment ABET Accreditation Prospective StudentsApplication Information B.S. in Computer Engineering B.S. in Electrical Engineering Current StudentsStudent Resources Student Organizations Undergraduate Advising Student Labs - Scott Campus Graduate StudentsDegree Programs Admission Requirements Funding ResearchLabs & Facilities Student Research Opportunities Partnerships / OutreachNews Alumni Invest in ECE Wind for Schools Nebraska Robotics Expo Visit Visit the College of Engineering Visit the University of NebraskaLincoln Apply Apply to the College of Engineering Apply to the University of NebraskaLincoln Give Give to the College of Engineering Give to the University of NebraskaLincoln Nebraska College of Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Christos Argyropoulos Christos Argyropoulos Christos Argyropoulos Contact Information: NH E411A City Campus (Lincoln) (402) 472-3710 Personal Links: Plasmonics, Metamaterials, and Integrated Nanophotonics Lab PhD advertisement Professional Memberships: IEEE (senior member) IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society American Physical Society SPIE URSI Optical Society of America (senior member) Assistant Professor Academic Degrees Ph.D., Queen Mary, University of London M.Sc., The University of Manchester Diploma, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki PhD Vacancies I am currently seeking several PhD students to join my recently established group. If you are an exceptional candidate with an interest in electromagnetics, plasmonics, metamaterials or photonics please contact me: cargyropoulos2@unl.edu.Previous experience in computational electromagnetic simulation codes (FDTD, FEM) or software packages (COMSOL, Lumerical, CST) is highly desired. Several fellowships exist to support your studies with funds provided by different sources. Research Opportunities (Graduate/Undergraduate) Metamaterials and Plasmonics Areas of Research and Professional Interest Linear and nonlinear plasmonics and nanophotonics, metamaterials and their applications, antenna design, transformation electromagnetics, photonics, active, tunable and reconfigurable metadevices, acoustic/thermal metamaterials, microwave/mm-wave/THz engineering, novel optical interconnects, thermal emission from plasmonic structures, graphene nanophotonics, novel energy harvesting devices and computational electromagnetics. In the News: Powered by the Aug 30, 2019: Paper by Argyropoulos, grad student published in Advanced Optics Materials Apr 03, 2019: Christos Argyropoulos discusses the interdisciplinary approach in Optics & Photonics Jan 18, 2019: ONR award, a first for Nebraska, boosts Christos Argyropoulos' laser research Jun 11, 2018: Christos Argyropoulos elevated to Senior Member of OSA Apr 27, 2017: ONR fellowship, URSI award a 'rare opportunity' for Argyropoulos Feb 17, 2016: Team creates elastic materials that gleam when stretched Inventions/Patents Ultra-broadband Absorption in PV Cells Using Plasmonic Patterned Metasurfaces, International Patent, Provisional Application No. P57423WO/MWG. Courses Taught Spring Semester Course: Advanced Electromagnetics (ELEC 498/898) Fall Semester Course: Applied Electrodynamics (ELEC 498/898) Spring/Fall Semester Course: Electromagnetic Field Theory (ECEN 306/3060) About Christos Argyropoulos Christos Argyropoulos received the Diploma of Electrical and Computer Engineering from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece (2006). He holds a M.Sc. degree in Communication Engineering from the Microwaves and Communication Systems group of the University of Manchester, UK (2007) and a Ph.D. degree in Electronic Engineering from the Antennas and Electromagnetics Group of the Queen Mary, University of London, UK (2011). After completion of his PhD studies (2011), he accepted a Postdoctoral Fellowship position in the University of Texas at Austin, USA. Next (2013), he worked as a Postdoctoral Associate in the Center for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics at Pratt School of Engineering, Duke University, USA. Currently, he is an Assistant Professor at University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Department of Electrical Engineering. He has published over 180 technical papers in highly ranked journals and refereed conference proceedings, including 6 book chapters. He has received several travel and research awards, such as 2019 ONR Young Investigator Award, 2017 Young Scientist Award from URSI, 2017 ONR Summer Faculty Fellowship, Junior Researcher Award of the 2013 Raj Mittra Travel Grant, EPSRC Research Scholarship, Royal Academy of Engineering international travel grant and twice the Marie Curie Actions Grant to attend the European School of Antennas. He has given several invited talks and seminars to different conferences and universities. Experience Sept 2014 - present Assistant Professor Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA Research on metamaterials, metasurfaces, plasmonics, nanophotonics and novel antennas. 9/2013-8/2014 Postdoctoral Associate, Center for Metamaterials and Integrated Plasmonics Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Pratt School of Engineering, Duke University, USA Worked under the supervision of Prof. David Smith on analytical, computational and experimental aspects of nonlinear plasmonic and metamaterial structures, tunable and reconfigurable metadevices. 2011-Aug 2013 Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas at Austin, Department of Electronicaland Computer Engineering, Metamaterials and Plasmonics research group, USA Worked under the supervision of Prof. Andrea Alu on linear and nonlinear plasmonics, thermal emitters, energy harvesting devices and metamaterials. 2009-present Reviewer in ACS Nano Letters, Applied Physics Letters Optics Express, OpticsLetters, Nanophotonics, JOSA A, JOSA B, Photonics and Nanostructures Fundamentals and Applications, PIER, IEEE Transactions on Antenna andPropagation, IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, Journal of AppliedPhysics, Radio Science, IEEE/OSA Journal of Lightwave Technology, AdvancedElectromagnetics, Chinese Physics B, EPJ Applied Metamaterials, FERMAT andnumerous conferences. Honors and Awards 7 Mar 2014 Invited to chair session titled "Plasmonics and Metamaterials" at the AmericanPhysical Society March Meeting, March 3-7, 2014, Denver, Colorado, USA. April / 2013 Junior Researcher Award of the 2013 Raj Mittra Travel Grant, IEEE Competitive and prestigious award based upon the candidate's potential or demonstrated aptitude for research in the areas of electromagnetics, antennas and propagation. Awarded to one postdoctoral junior scientist each year to attend the major conference in the field of antennas and propagation (IEEE APS 2013). 8 Feb 2013 Invited seminar talk Title: Nonlinear plasmonic devices and ultrabroadband light concentrators/absorbers Invited seminar talk at a colloquium organized by University of Heriot Watt, Institute of Sensors, Signals and Systems in Edinburgh, UK. 2007- 2010 Full-time EPSRC Research Scholarship Antennas & Electromagnetics Group, Queen Mary, University of London Covers tuition fees and living expenses. Sept / 2010 Spotlight on Optics: highlighted articles from OSA journals Our paper: FDTD analysis of the optical black hole, has been selected for Spotlight on Optics by Optical Society of America. May / 2010 International Travel Grant, The Royal Academy of Engineering Competitive and prestigious grant. Awarded to attend a major conference in the field of electrical engineering (IEEE APS 2010). Oct / 2009 Marie Curie Actions Grant, EuropeanSchool of Antennas Awarded to limited number of graduate students to attend the course: Artificial EBG Surfaces and Metamaterial for Antennas. Selected Publications [1] G. M. Akselrod, C. Argyropoulos, T. B. Hoang, C. Cirac, C. Fang, J. Huang, D. R. Smith, M. H. Mikkelsen, Probing the mechanisms of large Purcell enhancement in plasmonic nanoantennas, Nature Photonics, vol. 8, pp. 835840, 2014. [2] C. Argyropoulos, P.-Y. Chen, G. DAguanno, and A. Al, Temporal soliton excitation in an -near-zero plasmonic metamaterial, Optics Letters, vol. 39, pp. 5566-5569, 2014. [3] J. Lee, M. Tymchenko, C. Argyropoulos, P.-Y. Chen, F. Lu, F. Demmerle, G. Boehm, M.-C. Amann, A. Al, and M. A. Belkin, Giant nonlinear response from plasmonic metasurfaces coupled to intersubband polaritons, Nature, vol. 511, pp. 6569, 2014. (press coverage by Phys.org, nanowerk) [4] C. Argyropoulos, G. DAguanno, and A. Al, Giant second harmonic generation efficiency and ideal phase matching with a double e-near-zero cross-slit metamaterial, Physical Review B, vol. 89, pp. 235401, 2014. [5] C. Argyropoulos, N. M. Estakhri, F. Monticone, and A. Al, Negative refraction, gain and nonlinear effects in hyperbolic metamaterials, Optics Express, Focus Issue on Hyperbolic Metamaterials: Fundamentals and Applications, vol. 21, No. 12, pp. 15037-15047, 2013. Recent Presentations [1] C. Argyropoulos, C. Cirac, and D. R. Smith, Enhanced tunability and optical nonlinearity with film-coupled plasmonic nanoantennas, Gordon Research Conference on Plasmonics: Manipulating Light Matter Interaction at the Nanoscale, Sunday River Resort, Newry,ME, USA, July 6-11, 2014. [2] C. Argyropoulos, C. Cirac, and D. R. Smith, Enhanced Nonlinear Optical Effects with Extremely Coupled Plasmonic Systems, META 2014, the 5th International Conference on Metamaterials, Photonic Crystals and Plasmonics, Singapore, May 20-23, 2014. [3] C. Argyropoulos, Tunable and nonlinear film-coupled plasmonic nanoantennas, Materials Meet Metamaterials, AFOSR Workshop, UCSD, La Jolla, CA, April 24, 2014. [4] C. Argyropoulos, C. Cirac, and D. R. Smith, Enhanced nonlinear optical processes with film-coupled plasmonic nanoantennas, APS March Meeting 2014, Denver, CO, USA, March 3-7, 2014. [5] C. Argyropoulos, G. DAguanno, and A. Al, Nonlinear Optical Effects in Epsilon-Near-Zero Plasmonic Waveguides and Metamaterials, Frontiers in Optics 2013, Orlando, FL, USA, October 6-10, 2013. City Campus Nebraska Hall E419 P.O. Box 880511 Lincoln, NE 68588-0511 (402) 472-3771 FAX (402) 472-4732 Scott Campus 1110 S. 67th Street 200 Peter Kiewit Institute Omaha, NE 68182-0572 (402) 554-2288 FAX (402) 554-2289 Follow Us on Social Media: NebraskaEngineeringon facebook @NebEngineeringon twitter nebengineeringon instagram College of Engineeringon linkedinVideos on UNL MediaHub Web site questions? Contact: Matt Honke Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network QA Test University of NebraskaLincoln Established 1869 Copyright 2020 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.
