Yi Qian | College of Engineering | University of NebraskaLincoln Skip to main content University of NebraskaLincoln Visit Visit Visit the College of Engineering Visit the University of NebraskaLincoln Apply Apply Apply to the College of Engineering Apply to the University of NebraskaLincoln Give Give Give to the College of Engineering Give to the University of NebraskaLincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close College of Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Menu Search Log In About ECEFaculty and Staff Locations / Facilities Campus Information Advisory Board Editing Services Employment ABET Accreditation Prospective StudentsApplication Information B.S. in Computer Engineering B.S. in Electrical Engineering Current StudentsStudent Resources Student Organizations Undergraduate Advising Student Labs - Scott Campus Graduate StudentsDegree Programs Admission Requirements Funding ResearchLabs & Facilities Student Research Opportunities Partnerships / OutreachNews Alumni Invest in ECE Wind for Schools Nebraska Robotics Expo Visit Visit the College of Engineering Visit the University of NebraskaLincoln Apply Apply to the College of Engineering Apply to the University of NebraskaLincoln Give Give to the College of Engineering Give to the University of NebraskaLincoln Nebraska College of Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Yi Qian Yi Qian Yi Qian Contact Information: PKI 201E Scott Campus (Omaha) (402) 554-4990 Personal Links: Lab web site Professional Memberships: ACM Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) ProfessorEditor-in-Chief, IEEE Wireless Communications Academic Degrees Ph.D., Clemson University, Clemson, SC, USA M.S., Utah State University, Logan, UT, USA M.Eng., China Textile University, Shanghai, China B.S., Suzhou University, Suzhou, China Areas of Research and Professional Interest Next Generation Wireless Networks Information and Communication Network Security Cyber Security Computer Communication Networks Internet of Things Big Data Cloud Computing Mobile Computing Network System Modeling and Performance Analysis Smart Grid Communications Vehicular Communications Wireless Communications In the News: Powered by the Jun 11, 2019: Yi Qian recognized at 2019 IEEE Conference in Shanghai, China Nov 28, 2018: Yi Qian named to class of 2019 IEEE Fellows Sep 12, 2018: Yi Qian begins tenure as editor-in-chief of IEEE Wireless Communications magazine Apr 25, 2016: Fourteen faculty granted promotion or tenure Sep 12, 2011: NSF funds UNL research to improve wireless networks for emergencies Feb 04, 2010: 2010 Research Development Fellows named Courses Taught CEEN 484/884 - Network Security CEEN 488/888 - Wireless Security About Yi Qian Yi Qian received a Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Clemson University, South Carolina. He is currently a professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln (UNL). Prior to joining UNL, he worked in the telecommunications industry, academia, and government. Some of his previous professional positions include serving as a senior member of scientific staff and a technical advisor at Nortel Networks, a senior systems engineer and a technical advisor at several startup companies, an assistant professor at the University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez, and a senior researcher at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. His research interests include wireless communications and networks, and information and communication network security. He has research and industry experience in wireless communications and networks, wireless sensor networks, vehicular communication networks, information and communication network security, smart grid communications, broadband satellite communications, optical communications, high-speed communications and networks, and Internet of Things. Prof. Yi Qian is a Fellow of IEEE. He was previously Chair of the IEEE Technical Committee for Communications and Information Security. He was the Technical Program Chair for IEEE International Conference on Communications 2018. He serves on the Editorial Boards of several international journals and magazines, including as the Editor-in-Chief for IEEE Wireless Communications. He was a Distinguished Lecturer for IEEE Vehicular Technology Society. He is currently a Distinguished Lecturer for IEEE Communications Society. Experience Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2016 - present Associate Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2012 - 2016 Assistant Professor, Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 2009 - 2012 Honors and Awards IEEE TCGCC Distinguished Technical Achievement Recognition Award, IEEE Technical Committee on Green Communications & Computing (TCGCC), December 2018. IEEE CISTC Outstanding Service Award, IEEE Communications and Information Security Technical Committee (CISTC), December 2018. Holling Family Distinguished Teaching/Advising/Mentoring Award, College of Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, April 2018. Holling Family Distinguished Teaching Award for Innovative Use of Instructional Technology, College of Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, April 2018. William E. Brooks Engineering Leadership Fellow, College of Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, September 2014 August 2018. Distinguished Lecturer, IEEE Communications Society, January 2018 - December 2021. Distinguished Lecturer, IEEE Vehicular Technology Society, July 2014 - June 2018. Faculty Service Award, College of Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, April 2014. Holling Family Distinguished Teaching Award, College of Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, April 2012. Henry Y. Kleinkauf Family Distinguished New Faculty Teaching Award, College of Engineering, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, April 2011. Selected Publications Recent Publications City Campus Nebraska Hall E419 P.O. Box 880511 Lincoln, NE 68588-0511 (402) 472-3771 FAX (402) 472-4732 Scott Campus 1110 S. 67th Street 200 Peter Kiewit Institute Omaha, NE 68182-0572 (402) 554-2288 FAX (402) 554-2289 Follow Us on Social Media: NebraskaEngineeringon facebook @NebEngineeringon twitter nebengineeringon instagram College of Engineeringon linkedinVideos on UNL MediaHub Web site questions? Contact: Matt Honke Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network QA Test University of NebraskaLincoln Established 1869 Copyright 2020 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.
