Lance C. Prez | College of Engineering | University of NebraskaLincoln Skip to main content University of NebraskaLincoln Visit Visit Visit the College of Engineering Visit the University of NebraskaLincoln Apply Apply Apply to the College of Engineering Apply to the University of NebraskaLincoln Give Give Give to the College of Engineering Give to the University of NebraskaLincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close College of Engineering Menu Search Log In AboutDirectory Campuses & Facilities Career Opportunities Construction Central College Advisory Board Strategic Planning Faculty & Staff Resources The Complete Engineer Departments/SchoolsBiological Systems Engineering Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Durham School of Architectural Engineering & Construction Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Materials Engineering Undergraduate ProgramsBecome a Student Majors & Minors Student Services Involvement Signature Programs & Events Virtual Events for Prospective Students Graduate ProgramsDegree Programs Admission Requirements Apply Faculty Directory Funding Current Students Graduate Research Opportunities Research & InnovationLabs & Facilities Research Taxonomy Contacts & Information Research News Student Research Opportunities Upcoming Seminars & Colloquiums Engagement & OutreachAlumni Engineering Ambassador Network Alumni Golf Scramble Industry Communications The Complete Engineering Podcast Visit Visit the College of Engineering Visit the University of NebraskaLincoln Apply Apply to the College of Engineering Apply to the University of NebraskaLincoln Give Give to the College of Engineering Give to the University of NebraskaLincoln Nebraska College of Engineering Lance C. Prez Lance C. Prez Lance C. Prez Contact Information: 114 OTHM City Campus (Lincoln) (402) 472-5259 Personal Links: Perceptual Systems Research Group Dean, College of EngineeringOmar H. Heins Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Academic Degrees Ph.D., UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME - Electrical Engineering, 1995 (Coding and Modulation for Space and Satellite Communications) M.S., UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME - Electrical Engineering, 1989 (On the Performance of Multi-dimensional Phase Modulated Trellis Codes) B.S., UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA - Electrical Engineering, 1987 In the News: Powered by the Sep 23, 2019: Lance C. Prez chosen IEEE Education Society Distinguished Member Jan 18, 2019: Complete Engineering Podcast: Get To Know Dean Lance C. Prez Sep 06, 2018: Dean Lance C. Prez builds success, relationships both on and off softball fields May 10, 2018: Lance C. Prez named dean of College of Engineering Apr 06, 2018: Three College of Engineering dean finalists named; open forums set Jul 25, 2016: Prez to receive IEEE education society service award Jun 16, 2016: Lance C. Prez appointed interim dean Sep 25, 2015: NSF-funded study to probe visualization, problem-solving May 17, 2010: Prez named associate vice chancellor May 08, 2008: Congratulations to 2008 E-Week Graduate Symposium and Poster Session winners! Pages1 2 next last Get to know: Dean Lance C. Prez On this inaugural episode of the Complete Engineering Podcast, get to know Dean Lance C. Prez and learn more about the future growth and projects going on at the University of Nebraska College of Engineering. Click here for episode About Lance C. Prez Dr. Lance C. Prez was named dean of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln College of Engineering in May 2018, following two years as interim dean. An experienced academic and campus leader, Prez previously was associate vice chancellor for academic affairs and dean of graduate studies at the university. He has been a faculty member in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering since 1996 and is currently the Heins Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering. In his previous administrative positions, Prez was responsible for faculty and leadership development, promotion and tenure, instruction technology and classroom facilities improvements, and graduate education. He led the implementation of $30 million in improvements to the academic facilities and played a pivotal role in the universitys entrance into the Big Ten Committee on Institutional Cooperation. As a faculty member, he has won numerous teaching awards and has been principal investigator or co-principal investigator on more than $15 million in federally funded research. His research interests include signal and information processing, engineering education, and faculty leadership development. From 2008-10, Prez was a program director in the Division of Undergraduate Education at the National Science Foundation. He has a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Virginia, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Notre Dame. Honors and Awards IEEE Education Society Edwin C. Jones, Jr. Meritorious Service Award, 2016 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Education Society Distinguished Member Award, 2019 City Campus 114 Othmer Hall/820 N 16th St. P.O. Box 880642 Lincoln, Nebraska 68588-0642 Phone: (402) 472-3181 Fax: (402) 472-7792 Email: engfrontdesk2@unl.edu Scott Campus 100 Peter Kiewit Institute 1110 South 67th Street Omaha, Nebraska 68182-0176 Phone: (402) 554-6009 Fax: (402) 554-3850 Follow Us on Social Media: NebraskaEngineeringon facebook @NebEngineeringon twitter nebengineeringon instagram College of Engineeringon linkedinVideos on UNL MediaHub Web site questions? Contact: Matt Honke Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network QA Test University of NebraskaLincoln Established 1869 Copyright 2020 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.
