Terry L. Weech Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Virtual Visit Give a Gift iSchool Resources University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Block I logo School of Information Sciences Menu Visit What is an iSchool? Request Information Upcoming Events Tuition & Financial Support Recruitment & Admissions Staff iSchool Ambassadors Degrees & Programs BS in Information Sciences MS in Bioinformatics MS in Information Management MS in Library and Information Science MS/LIS Joint Degrees School Librarian Licensure PhD in Information Sciences Certificate of Advanced Study Continuing Education Advising Course Catalog People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Administration Staff Committees School Directory Research Areas Projects Vision Services Showcase Research Fellows Scholars-in-Residence Videos Engage Hire an Intern or Full-Time Employee Host a Practicum Mentor a Student Give a Gift Business Intelligence Group Alumni Student Life Student Organizations Help Desk Career Support Online Students On-Campus Students Student Development Opportunities Student Affairs Staff Convocation News & Events News Feed Events Calendar Publications Upcoming Events Lectures Awards Our School iSchool Response to COVID-19 iSchool at a Glance History Data and Reporting Building Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Job Openings Contact Us Search Search this website People In This Section Home People Terry L. Weech Terry L. Weech Terry L. Weech CV Associate Professor PhD, Library Science, Illinois 201 LIS (217) 333-0646 weech@illinois.edu http://cpanel.ischool.illinois.edu/~weech Research focus International librarianship; library and information science education; collection development; management and assessment of library services; government information resources; economics of information; intellectual freedom issues; public librarianship. Biography Terry Weech has written nearly one hundred scholarly articles and reports on a wide variety of library and information science (LIS) topics. Most recently, his work focuses on international librarianship issues and professional education for LIS. He has been active in the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), twice elected the secretary and chair of the Section for Education and Training Standing Committee and twice elected chair of the IFLA Standing Committee on Library Theory and Research. He has lectured on trends and issues in LIS research and education in over twenty countries on four continents. Weech has received five Fulbright Senior Specialists awards for travel to five different countries to share his expertise with students, LIS faculty, and practicing librarians. In 2012, he was instrumental in establishing a formal faculty and student exchange agreement with ENSSIB, the French National School of Library and Information Science. Weech has served several terms on the University Senates Conference, the capstone of the Universitys faculty governance system, representing the Urbana-Champaign campus on the faculty governance body, which consists of elected representatives from each of the three University of Illinois campuses. Within the iSchool, he has held the position of director of development and chair of the Advanced Studies (PhD and CAS) Committee. Weech has been active in the American Library Association (ALA) as well as state library associations. He served as the chair of the Rural Library Services Committee in ALA and was a member of the Public Library Association Board. He served as chair of Library Association Intellectual Freedom Committees in three states (Illinois, Iowa, and Mississippi) and has been involved in the administration of the Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award reception at the ALA Midwinter meeting for nearly twenty years. Weechs teaching experience includes appointments at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Emporia State University, Emporia, Kansas; University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; and Mississippi University for Women, Columbus, Mississippi. Office hours By appointment, please contact professor Completed Research Projects Development of International Educational Guidelines for Digital Librarianship In the News iSchool well represented at ASIS&T 2019 October 17 2019 Weech to speak on LIS accreditation at CoLIS June 14 2019 Join us at the 2018 ALA Annual Conference June 20 2018 iSchool at ALISE and ALA Midwinter January 25 2018 Weech honored for contribution to IFLA and the library profession September 6 2017 Weech and Takazawa to present research at BAI 2017 June 30 2017 Join us at the 2017 ALA Annual Conference June 19 2017 iSchool faculty ranked as excellent for Fall 2016 March 16 2017 Join the iSchool at ALISE 2017 January 12 2017 Join us at the IFLA World Library and Information Congress August 9 2016 Research Areas: Education of Information Professionals Ethics and Values for Information Information Policy Libraries and Librarianship People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Administration Staff Committees School Directory Back to top University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School of Information Sciences 501 E. Daniel St. MC-493 Champaign, IL 61820-6211 Voice (217) 333-3280 Fax (217) 244-3302 ischool@illinois.edu quick links School Directory Virtual Visit Give a Gift iSchool Resources iSchool Wiki IS Virtual Library campus resources Privacy Notice Campus Directory Graduate College University Library University of Illinois 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Settings
