Emeriti Faculty Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Virtual Visit Give a Gift iSchool Resources University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Block I logo School of Information Sciences Menu Visit What is an iSchool? Request Information Upcoming Events Tuition & Financial Support Recruitment & Admissions Staff iSchool Ambassadors Degrees & Programs BS in Information Sciences MS in Bioinformatics MS in Information Management MS in Library and Information Science MS/LIS Joint Degrees School Librarian Licensure PhD in Information Sciences Certificate of Advanced Study Continuing Education Advising Course Catalog People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Administration Staff Committees School Directory Research Areas Projects Vision Services Showcase Research Fellows Scholars-in-Residence Videos Engage Hire an Intern or Full-Time Employee Host a Practicum Mentor a Student Give a Gift Business Intelligence Group Alumni Student Life Student Organizations Help Desk Career Support Online Students On-Campus Students Student Development Opportunities Student Affairs Staff Convocation News & Events News Feed Events Calendar Publications Upcoming Events Lectures Awards Our School iSchool Response to COVID-19 iSchool at a Glance History Data and Reporting Building Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Job Openings Contact Us Search Search this website People In This Section Home People Emeriti Faculty Emeriti Faculty Abdul Alkalimat (McWorter) Professor Emeritus Research focus Digital inequality, community informatics, and African American intellectual history. Alistair Black Professor Emeritus Research focus History of public libraries, corporate libraries, the library profession, the information society, and pre-computer information management. Chip Bruce Professor Emeritus Research focus Community informatics; environments to support inquiry-based learning; collaboration in knowledge making; new literacy practices. http://chipbruce.wordpress.com Pauline Cochrane Professor Emerita Susan G. Davis Professor Emerita Research focus The role and significance of vernacular culture; ethnography of commercial culture; the politics of culture and cultural research. Leigh Estabrook Dean Emerita Caroline Haythornthwaite Professor Emerita Research focus Interaction via computer media and how it supports and affects work, learning, and social interaction; how information is exchanged, knowledge is co-constructed, collaboration happens, and community forms in and in conjunction with online contexts. Betsy Hearne Professor Emerita Research focus The heart of my work is stories, what they tell us and how they are told. Stories are central to library and information science, because stories literally store us, serving as storage for an infinite variety of formal and informal knowledge. Kathryn Henderson Professor Emerita Christine Jenkins Associate Professor Emerita Research focus History of children's literature; history of youth services librarianship as women's history; historical and contemporary censorship and intellectual freedom; young adult literature; representations of minority-status groups in children's and young adult literature; reading engagement; reader-response research; reader-text interaction. Donald Krummel Professor Emeritus Research focus General and music bibliography; library history. Carole Palmer Professor Emeritus Research focus Data curation and digital research collections. Ann Peterson-Kemp Associate Professor Emerita Research focus Community informatics; community inquiry. W. Boyd Rayward Professor Emeritus Research focus Paul Otlets ideas in relation to the Internet, the World Wide Web, and information science; utopian schemes of knowledge organization including H.G. Wellss idea of a world brain; the implications of digitization and networking for libraries and museums. Dan Schiller Professor Emeritus Research focus Telecommunications history; information policy; cultural production and the political economy of capitalism. Linda C. Smith Professor Emerita, Interim Executive Associate Dean PhD, Information Transfer, Syracuse Research focus Education for library and information science, with particular attention to online pedagogy; history of information science; impact of new technologies on reference and information services. People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Administration Staff Committees School Directory Back to top University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School of Information Sciences 501 E. Daniel St. MC-493 Champaign, IL 61820-6211 Voice (217) 333-3280 Fax (217) 244-3302 ischool@illinois.edu quick links School Directory Virtual Visit Give a Gift iSchool Resources iSchool Wiki IS Virtual Library campus resources Privacy Notice Campus Directory Graduate College University Library University of Illinois 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Settings
