Victoria Stodden Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Virtual Visit Give a Gift iSchool Resources University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Block I logo School of Information Sciences Menu Visit What is an iSchool? Request Information Upcoming Events Tuition & Financial Support Recruitment & Admissions Staff iSchool Ambassadors Degrees & Programs BS in Information Sciences MS in Bioinformatics MS in Information Management MS in Library and Information Science MS/LIS Joint Degrees School Librarian Licensure PhD in Information Sciences Certificate of Advanced Study Continuing Education Advising Course Catalog People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Administration Staff Committees School Directory Research Areas Projects Vision Services Showcase Research Fellows Scholars-in-Residence Videos Engage Hire an Intern or Full-Time Employee Host a Practicum Mentor a Student Give a Gift Business Intelligence Group Alumni Student Life Student Organizations Help Desk Career Support Online Students On-Campus Students Student Development Opportunities Student Affairs Staff Convocation News & Events News Feed Events Calendar Publications Upcoming Events Lectures Awards Our School iSchool Response to COVID-19 iSchool at a Glance History Data and Reporting Building Facilities Diversity & Inclusion Job Openings Contact Us Search Search this website People In This Section Home People Victoria Stodden Victoria Stodden Associate Professor PhD, Statistics, Stanford Master of Legal Studies, Stanford Law School 314 LIS vcs@illinois.edu http://stodden.net Other professional appointments Faculty Affiliate, National Center for Supercomputing Applications Faculty Affiliate, Coordinated Science Lab Faculty Affiliate, College of Law, Department of Statistics, and Department of Computer Science Research focus Enabling reproducibility in computational science, including the study of adequacy and robustness in replicated results, designing and implementing validation systems, developing standards of openness for data and code sharing, and resolving legal and policy barriers to disseminating reproducible research. Biography Victoria Stodden joined the School of Information Sciences as an associate professor in Fall 2014. She is a leading figure in the area of reproducibility in computational science, exploring how can we better ensure the reliability and usefulness of scientific results in the face of increasingly sophisticated computational approaches to research. Her work addresses a wide range of topics, including standards of openness for data and code sharing, legal and policy barriers to disseminating reproducible research, robustness in replicated findings, cyberinfrastructure to enable reproducibility, and scientific publishing practices. Stodden co-chairs the NSF Advisory Committee for CyberInfrastructure and is a member of the NSF Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering (CISE) Advisory Committee. She also serves on the National Academies Committee on Responsible Science: Ensuring the Integrity of the Research Process. Previously an assistant professor of statistics at Columbia University, Stodden taught courses in data science, reproducible research, and statistical theory and was affiliated with the Institute for Data Sciences and Engineering. She co-edited two books released in 2014Privacy, Big Data, and the Public Good: Frameworks for Engagement published by Cambridge University Press and Implementing Reproducible Research published by Taylor & Francis. Stodden earned both her PhD in statistics and her law degree from Stanford University. She also holds a masters degree in economics from the University of British Columbia and a bachelors degree in economics from the University of Ottawa. Video: Sharing research results: It's not just data anymore Courses currently teaching Fall 2020 - Data, Stat, Info - IS507CO Office hours By appointment, please contact professor Publications & Papers "Best Practices for Computational Science: Software Infrastructure and Environments for Reproducible and Extensible Research," with S. Miguez, Journal of Open Research Software 2(1), http://dx.doi.org/10.5334/jors.ay "The Reproducible Research Movement in Statistics," Statistical Journal of the IAOS, Volume 30 (2014). DOI 10.3233/SJI-140818 "Provisioning Reproducible Computational Science Information," with S. Miguez, reproducibility@XSEDE: An XSEDE14 Workshop, July 2014. "Enabling Reproducibility in Big Data Research: Balancing Confidentiality and Scientific Transparency," chapter in Lane, J., Stodden, V., Bender, S., and Nissenbaum, H. (eds). 2014. Privacy, Big Data, and the Public Good: Frameworks for Engagement. Cambridge University Press. Privacy, Big Data, and the Public Good: Frameworks for Engagement, Lane, J., Stodden, V., Bender, S., and Nissenbaum, H. (eds). 2014. "What Computational Scientists Need to Know About Intellectual Property Law: A Primer," chapter in Stodden, V., Leisch, F., and Peng, R. (eds). 2014. Implementing Reproducible Computational Research. Boca Raton: Chapman & Hall/CRC). "RunMyCode.org: A Research-Reproducibility Tool for Computational Sciences," with C. Hurlin and C. Perignon, chapter in Stodden, V., Leisch, F., and Peng, R. (eds). 2014. Implementing Reproducible Computational Research. Boca Raton: Chapman & Hall/CRC). Implementing Reproducible Research, Stodden, V., Leisch, F., and Peng, R. (eds). 2014. Active Research Projects EAGER: Reproducibility in Computational and Data-Enabled Science - Paradigms, Practices, and Infrastructure The Whole Tale In the News Stodden proposes guide for developing common data science approaches June 24 2020 Stodden discusses cyberinfrastructure at National Academies workshop March 25 2020 Stodden to present reproducibility research at AAAS Annual Meeting February 13 2020 Webcast on reproducibility to feature Stodden February 5 2020 Stodden to present reproducibility research at two distinguished lectures November 19 2019 Stodden receives NSF grant for reproducibility research October 28 2019 iSchool well represented at ASIS&T 2019 October 17 2019 iSchool researchers present at ro2019 September 24 2019 Stodden appointed to NISS Board August 27 2019 Stodden discusses reproducibility at White House conference June 18 2019 Research Areas: Science of Science Data Analytics and Human Centered Data Data Curation Design and Evaluation of Information Systems and Services Reproducibility People Faculty Adjuncts & Affiliates Doctoral Students Emeriti Faculty Administration Staff Committees School Directory Back to top University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign School of Information Sciences 501 E. Daniel St. MC-493 Champaign, IL 61820-6211 Voice (217) 333-3280 Fax (217) 244-3302 ischool@illinois.edu quick links School Directory Virtual Visit Give a Gift iSchool Resources iSchool Wiki IS Virtual Library campus resources Privacy Notice Campus Directory Graduate College University Library University of Illinois 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Settings
