Faculty Resources | Chemical Engineering | University of Illinois at Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. Skip to the content of this page, the main menu, the secondary menu, the site search form, the site home page. UIC Logo Chemical Engineering Search the site Toggle Menu Search UIC Logo Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admissions Accreditation ChemE Major ChemE Minor ChemE for Pre-Med Courses Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses China 3+2 Program MS Program PhD Program PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Groups Student Resources Research Expand Research menu Research Areas Labs Research Experiences for Undergraduates Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Advisory Board Saxena Professorship Faculty Awards Faculty Resources Staff Open Positions News Expand News menu Press Mentions News Stories Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search View Menu Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Chemical Engineering Faculty and Staff Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Helpful Links OBFS policies and procedures Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research Seminar host procedure Forms Equipment order form Student worker requisition Student worker timesheet Travel and expense reimbursement Important Information Laboratory safety text Awareness is the single most fundamental rule of chemical safety. UIC chemical engineering is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for its students, staff, and faculty. The university requires adherence to basic laboratory safety rules and guidelines with regard to the safe handling and use of chemicals, bio-hazardous materials, radioactive materials, and laboratory equipment. The UIC laboratory safety website is the repository of all the key information you will need. All students, staff, and faculty members participating in laboratory research/work must obtain laboratory safety training and acquire a laboratory safety training certificate (renewed annually) before starting any laboratory work. One copy of the certificate must be submitted to the main office and one to the laboratory PI; and one copy must be secured in a drawer or shelf in the laboratory designated for maintaining laboratory personnel certificates. Learn more about training here. Emergency procedures Laboratory safety plan: Every laboratory must maintain an accessible laboratory safety plan. Personal protection equipment guide Standard operating procedures Safety seminar: The department will organize at least one safety seminar every year. Attending the seminar will be a requirement for most students, and all others (non-required students, staff, and faculty members) are highly encouraged to attend. Department safety officer:Jan Sagun, (312) 996-3424,jsagun2@uic.edu Safety and Chemical Engineering education program (SAChE) text The Safety and Chemical Engineering Education (SAChE) program, initiated in 1992, is a cooperative effort among the Center for Chemical Process Safety and engineering schools. It provides teaching materials and programs that bring elements of process safety into the education of undergraduate and graduate students studying chemical and biochemical products and processes. SAChE Student Safety Certificate Program: A Certificate of Safety Achievement is presented by SAChE and AIChE to students who demonstrate proficiency in process safety training modules developed for SAChE. The program allows students to receive recognition for their efforts, provided they are members of AIChE. Visit the SAChE website for additional information. AIChE code of ethics text Members of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers shall uphold and advance the integrity, honor, and dignity of the engineering profession by: being honest and impartial and serving with fidelity their employers, their clients, and the public; striving to increase the competence and prestige of the engineering profession; and using their knowledge and skill for the enhancement of human welfare. To achieve these goals, members shall: Hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public and protect the environment in performance of their professional duties. Formally advise their employers or clients (and consider further disclosure, if warranted) if they perceive that a consequence of their duties will adversely affect the present or future health or safety of their colleagues or the public. Accept responsibility for their actions, seek and heed critical review of their work, and offer objective criticism of the work of others. Issue statements or present information only in an objective and truthful manner. Act in professional matters for each employer or client as faithful agents or trustees, avoiding conflicts of interest and never breaching confidentiality. Treat fairly and respectfully all colleagues and co-workers, recognizing their unique contributions and capabilities. Perform professional services only in areas of their competence. Build their professional reputations on the merits of their services. Continue their professional development throughout their careers, and provide opportunities for the professional development of those under their supervision. Never tolerate harassment. Conduct themselves in a fair, honorable, and respectful manner. 2008 American Institute of Chemical Engineers. All rights reserved. Faculty and Staff Back to main content Department Head Faculty Emeritus Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Advisory Board Saxena Professorship Faculty Awards Faculty Resources Staff Open Positions UIC Logo College of Engineering Footer Menu Undergraduate Resources Graduate Resources Faculty Resources Open Positions ABET Accreditation Contact Department of Chemical Engineering Phone: (312) 996-3424 Fax: (312) 996-0808 cheuic@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Instagram UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 2.43.1 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
