Mini Masters Faculty | Graduate Programs in Software University of St. Thomas - Minnesota Skip to primary content University of St. Thomas Minnesota A private, Catholic liberal arts university School of Engineering Graduate Programs in Software Site Navigation Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Data Science Information Technology Software Engineering Software Management Earning a Double Major Fast Track Master's Graduate Certificates Artificial Intelligence Big Data Business Analysis Data Management DevOps Embedded Systems Enterprise Computing Healthcare Analytics Internet of Things Advanced Study (Post-master's) Non-Degree ("Just Take a Class") Course Catalog GPS Topics Courses Considering a Ph.D. Prospective Students Admissions Apply for Admission International Applicants Attend an Information Session - ONLINE Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet a Grad Student Frequently Asked Questions International Students Current Students Career Services Course Schedules Commencement Information Computing Resources Forms Helpful Links New Students - Next Steps Orientation Policies Registration Semester Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program What to Expect - Fall 2020 What to Expect - Spring 2021 Alumni & Friends Career Development MBA Opportunity Donations and Mentoring Professional Education Data Analytics with R Mini Master of Big Data & AI Mini Master of Business Analysis Mini Master of Information Technology Mini Masters Faculty About Us Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory Board Center for Applied AI Events News Contact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Graduate Programs in Software Professional EducationMini Masters Faculty In this Section Data Analytics with RMini Master of Big Data & AIMini Master of Business AnalysisMini Master of Information TechnologyMini Masters Faculty Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Mini Master's Program Faculty: Jason Baker Jordan Barlow Ron Chiang Julie Denning Anne Eaton William Gamble Michaele Gardner Frank Haug Chih Lai Bill Leonard Eric Level Lynn Moline Holly Morris Ali Naqvi Manjeet Rege Ravinder Singh Verma Dan Yarmoluk Dr. Jordan Barlow is an assistant professor in Graduate Programs in Software. He previously held a position as an assistant professor in the Information Systems & Decision Sciences department at California State University, Fullerton. Dr. Barlow's research focuses on the intersection of human behavior and technology. He has published papers in several top information systems journals and conferences on the topics of computer-mediated communication, collective intelligence, virtual groupwork, and information security compliance behavior. Jason Baker is an Adjunct Instructor for the Graduate Programs in Software department at the University of St. Thomas. He is an accomplished technology leader, entrepreneur, and engineer with over 20 years of professional IT experience in the Twin Cities region. He is a recognized expert in managed IT services, cloud computing, dynamic infrastructure architecture, and DevOps methodologies. Mr. Baker was the technical co-founder of VISI, the largest privately-held provider of data center, managed hosting, and cloud computing services in Minnesota. He and his team grew a technology business from zero revenue to a successful acquisition by a Fortune 500 company. As CTO, he became a frequent speaker and author on technology trends, educating hundreds of Minnesota technology executives on the benefits of cloud computing. Dr. Ron Chiang has a passion for tackling complex computer system problems with creative designs in algorithms and architectures. At a high level, Dr. Chiang's research interests include distributed systems, cloud computing, and high performance computer architectures. Task and resource management algorithms and the design of advanced virtualization systems are of particular interest for Dr. Chiang. Julie Denningis currently an Information Security Manager for Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and an Adjunct Lecturer for Graduate Programs in Software at the University of St. Thomas. Ms. Denning has worked in IT for over 20 years, starting in desktop support, spending 10+ years as a software developer before moving to information security. She is passionate about the field of information security. Anne Eaton is an adjunct instructor at the University of St. Thomas. Ms. Eatoncompleted her Masters in Biostatistics at the University of Minnesota in 2010, then worked for six years as a biostatistician at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York where she collaborated on many projects with the Breast and Hepatopancreatobiliary Services in the Department of Surgery as well as research related to the design and conduct of phase I trials. She is currently pursuing her PhD in Biostatistics. William Gamble is anAdjunct Instructor at the University of St. Thomas and has spent most of his career as director of two successful management consulting firms and as a CIO and COO in Europe and the United States. He is an experienced international advisor in the field of process harmonization and improvement and project management, with skill in translating the benefits of complex methodologies to manageable and affordable levels. Michaele Gardneris anAdjunct Instructor at the University of St. Thomas and owns her own IT consulting firm. Michaele is currently leading Target Corporation's POS operating system upgrade. She is responsible for overseeing all aspects of the Software Development Lifecycle for this multiple year project. She has had quite a bit of variety in her professional career as an IT Consultant - she has worked as a Developer, BA, BI Program Manager, Infrastructure Project Manager; Certified Scrum Master and Management Consultant. Her past project roles include: Program Manager for Honeywell's global HBS Information Management SAP initiative; Portfolio Manager for Carlson Companies; and Enterprise Architecture Program Manager at National Marrow Donor Program. She has taught for over 20 years and she currently teaches graduate level courses in Business Analysis and Process Analysis. Frank Haug is a full-time faculty memberin the University of St. Thomas Graduate Programs in Software department. He teaches graduate-level courses in data warehousing, distributed databases, software development, and quality assurance. Mr. Haug has over 25 years of experience in the industry and has worked in multiple areas of software design and development. He has designed and implemented projects across numerous technology platforms, DBMs, and programming languages. Dr. Chih Lai is an associate professor in the University of St. Thomas Graduate Programs in Software department where he currently teaches Data Mining and Predictive Analytics, Healthcare Analytics, and Machine Learning. He has taught Object-Oriented Multimedia Databases, Real-Time Systems, and Software Engineering. Dr. Lai's research interests include data mining, multimedia databases, mining, real-time systems, and real-time data mining. Dr. Lai has published many technical papers for international conferences sponsored by IEEE, ACM, and other organizations. Dr. Lai is the 2004 University MAXI Grant recipient. Before joining the University of St. Thomas, Dr. Lai was a principal software engineer, working on a next-generation aircraft collision avoidance system (ADS-B) approved by the FAA. Dr. Lai received three U.S. patents and three European patents related to aircraft collision avoidance algorithms. Other industry experience includes building a network gateway between IBM SNA network and Novell LAN. Bill Leonardis an adjunct instructor at the University of St. Thomas. He taught "Leveraging Information Technology" in the St. Thomas Executive MBA program and presents the "Strategic Use of Technology "in the St. Thomas MBA and Healthcare MBA programs. He was the CEO and Founder of Charter Solutions, a technology consulting business that helps clients develop systems of differentiation and innovation through digital transformation and analytics. Previously he was the CEO of Computer Petroleum Corporation, an oil industry database startup that he took public. When at Deltak, an IT training company, he led operations in Canada, Australia/Asia and the Midwest region of the US. He started his career at 3M Company in sales and marketing. He has an MBA in Marketing and is on the board of directors of three companies. Eric Level is a full-time Clinical Professor for the Graduate Programs in Software department at the University of St. Thomas. Mr. Level has taught software engineering and computer programming, as well as many other computer science courses over the past 30 years. Running his own consulting company, Erichas consulted and provided technical training for local and national companies and government agencies. His primary research interest is applying educational technology to software engineering education. Lynn Moline is a consultant, speaker, and trainer who helps leaders improve their organizations strategic positions and business results through effective leadership and communication, thoughtful planning, and appropriate resource alignment and processes. Lynn holds an MBA from the University of St. Thomas and a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. She has earned professional certifications in facilitation and training from the International Association of Facilitators, Multi-Health Systems Emotional Intelligence EQ-I, Wilson Learning Corporation, and the Covey Institute. She directs executive peer groups for two professional associations and serves as adjunct faculty at University of St. Thomas, Century College, and Normandale College. Dr. Holly Morris is a Graduate Programs in Software alumnus and has worked at Thrivent Financial as senior vice president, chief information officer, overseeing information technology functions. Prior to joining Thrivent, Morris served as American Express senior vice president of technologies/global financial services, held senior leadership positions in technology at ING Financial Services/Reliastar Financial, and served as chief information officer for the City of Minneapolis. Earlier in her career, she worked for Minneapolis-based Alliant Techsystems and Honeywell International. Ali Naqvi is anadjunct instructor in the University of St. Thomas Graduate Programs in Software department. He also manages the Software Engineering Team at Starkey Hearing Technologies. Along with his management duties, Ali stays involved with the architecture, design, and development of new hearing aid products for Starkey Hearing Technologies. Ali has worked in many roles over the past 20 years including Software Department Manager at Starkey Hearing Technologies, Lead Software Engineer, SCRUM Master, and Agile Transformation Coach at Thomson Reuters; Technical Architect and Senior Technical Analyst for Target Corporation; Software Architect at Object Technology Solutions Inc.; and Programmer/Tester at IBM Mankato, Minnesota. He holds an M.S. in Software Engineering from the University of St. Thomas. Dr. Manjeet Regeis an Associate Professor at the University of St. Thomas Graduate Programs in Software department, where he teaches courses on Software Analysis & Design, Data Analytics & Visualization, and Machine Learning. Dr. Rege's research has been applied to a number of domain problems in text mining, Web Analytics and mining K-12 education data. He has published in various peer-reviewed reputed venues such as IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, Data Mining & Knowledge Discovery Journal, IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, and the World Wide Web Conference. He is on the editorial review board of Journal of Computer Information Systems and regularly serves on the program committees of various international conferences. Ravinder Singh Verma is anadjunct instructor at the University of St. Thomas and Director in a prestigious IT Consulting and Services firm. He has over two decades of consulting and delivery experience across variety of industries, including Insurance, Financial Services, Healthcare and Consumer. Due to experience in multiple verticals, he has gained deep understanding and knowledge in Insurance & Consumer business processes and Life & Health products. He has been providing IT outsourcing services to various clients which include large insurers, leading healthcare services firms, financial services firms and leading Consumer Products firms. Dan Yarmolukis the business and market development lead for ATEK's IoT products which include TankScan and AssetScan. Dan has been involved in analytics, embedded design and components of mobile products for over a decade with a focus on creating and driving IIoT automation, condition monitoring and predictive maintenance programs with technology with how analytics and business models intersect to drive added value and digital transformation. Industries served include: oil and gas, refining, chemical, precision agriculture, food, pulp and paper, mining, transportation, filtration, field services and distribution. He publishes his thoughts frequently and has a popular All Things Data Dr. Manjeet Rege of University of St. Thomas. He has an MBA and is finishing his master's degree in Data Science. He has a forthcoming book on Industrial IoT and Asset Management that will be published in late 2018. Admissions Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Directory News Events Sports Make a Gift FaceBook, Connect with St. Thomas on Twitter, Connect with St. Thomas on Google Plus, Connect with St. Thomas on YouTube, Connect with St. Thomas on Pinterest, Connect with St. Thomas on Instagram, Connect with St. Thomas on Maps & Directions Virtual Tour Emergency Jobs EO Statement Privacy Policy University of St. Thomas, Minnesota Graduate Programs in Software 2115 Summit Avenue St. Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA 1 (651) 962-5500 gradsoftware@stthomas.edu Report a Website Problem 2016 University of St. Thomas, Minnesota
