Faculty & Staff | Graduate Programs in Software University of St. Thomas - Minnesota Skip to primary content University of St. Thomas Minnesota A private, Catholic liberal arts university School of Engineering Graduate Programs in Software Site Navigation Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Data Science Information Technology Software Engineering Software Management Earning a Double Major Fast Track Master's Graduate Certificates Artificial Intelligence Big Data Business Analysis Data Management DevOps Embedded Systems Enterprise Computing Healthcare Analytics Internet of Things Advanced Study (Post-master's) Non-Degree ("Just Take a Class") Course Catalog GPS Topics Courses Considering a Ph.D. Prospective Students Admissions Apply for Admission International Applicants Attend an Information Session - ONLINE Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet a Grad Student Frequently Asked Questions International Students Current Students Career Services Course Schedules Commencement Information Computing Resources Forms Helpful Links New Students - Next Steps Orientation Policies Registration Semester Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program What to Expect - Fall 2020 What to Expect - Spring 2021 Alumni & Friends Career Development MBA Opportunity Donations and Mentoring Professional Education Data Analytics with R Mini Master of Big Data & AI Mini Master of Business Analysis Mini Master of Information Technology Mini Masters Faculty About Us Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory Board Center for Applied AI Events News Contact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Graduate Programs in Software About UsFaculty & Staff Adjunct Instructor In this Section Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory BoardCenter for Applied AIEventsNewsContact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Julie Denning Adjunct Instructor Office OSS 228 or Microsoft Teams Hours By appointment Phone 612-220-8882 Email jddenning@stthomas.edu Social Area of Interest/Expertise: Cybersecurity, Risk Management, Security Architecture, Cloud Security, Human Security Risk Career Highlights: Julie Dennings background spans technology, including 10 years as a software developer and 3 years on the infrastructure side before moving into cybersecurity in 2010. This experience has built a solid foundation for understanding technical security risk throughout an organization, as well as the ability to partner with the business to prioritize security. According to Ms. Denning, approaching business leaders from a risk-based perspective not only gives them the tools to manage their projects and budgets, but also provides a business view of security risk that they can understand. Julies current interests include understanding the human impact to security risk. She believes that, while organizations have been spending a significant amount of resources improving their security posture by investing in technical controls, the lack of investing in the human factor further drives the focus on people as the primary target. To mitigate this human risk, we need to transform the way people think about cybersecurity at work, at home, and wherever they are. Ms Denning believes that this transformation will require a variety of communication styles and approaches that speak to each persons personal experience. She believes that we need to make cybersecurity easy for everyone. Julie Denning is currently working at Thomson Reuters as a Product Security Architect, partnering with architects and product teams to ensure the software they build and deploy for their customers in the legal and government industries are built securely. Ms. Denning holds professional certifications in information security, cloud security, security management, and secure software development. Courses Taught at St. Thomas: Information Technology Security and Networking SEIS 663 Julie developed the curriculum for this course in 2013, which is now a required course for three of the four masters programs in Graduate Programs in Software at St. Thomas. Academic History: Post-master's Certificate of Advanced Study University of St. Thomas, MN Graduate Certificate in Computer Security University of St. Thomas, MN Master of Science inSoftware Engineering University of St. Thomas, MN Bachelor of Arts inPsychology, Norwegian St. Olaf College, MN Fall 2020 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location J-Term 2021 Courses J-Term 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Spring 2021 Courses Spring 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Admissions Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Directory News Events Sports Make a Gift FaceBook, Connect with St. Thomas on Twitter, Connect with St. Thomas on Google Plus, Connect with St. Thomas on YouTube, Connect with St. Thomas on Pinterest, Connect with St. Thomas on Instagram, Connect with St. Thomas on Maps & Directions Virtual Tour Emergency Jobs EO Statement Privacy Policy University of St. Thomas, Minnesota Graduate Programs in Software 2115 Summit Avenue St. Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA 1 (651) 962-5500 gradsoftware@stthomas.edu Report a Website Problem 2016 University of St. Thomas, Minnesota
