Faculty & Staff | Graduate Programs in Software University of St. Thomas - Minnesota Skip to primary content University of St. Thomas Minnesota A private, Catholic liberal arts university School of Engineering Graduate Programs in Software Site Navigation Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Data Science Information Technology Software Engineering Software Management Earning a Double Major Fast Track Master's Graduate Certificates Artificial Intelligence Big Data Business Analysis Data Management DevOps Embedded Systems Enterprise Computing Healthcare Analytics Internet of Things Advanced Study (Post-master's) Non-Degree ("Just Take a Class") Course Catalog GPS Topics Courses Considering a Ph.D. Prospective Students Admissions Apply for Admission International Applicants Attend an Information Session - ONLINE Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet a Grad Student Frequently Asked Questions International Students Current Students Career Services Course Schedules Commencement Information Computing Resources Forms Helpful Links New Students - Next Steps Orientation Policies Registration Semester Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program What to Expect - Fall 2020 What to Expect - Spring 2021 Alumni & Friends Career Development MBA Opportunity Donations and Mentoring Professional Education Data Analytics with R Mini Master of Big Data & AI Mini Master of Business Analysis Mini Master of Information Technology Mini Masters Faculty About Us Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory Board Center for Applied AI Events News Contact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Graduate Programs in Software About UsFaculty & Staff Adjunct Faculty In this Section Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory BoardCenter for Applied AIEventsNewsContact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Charles Betz Adjunct Faculty Office OSS 228 Hours By appointment Phone (651) 962-5500 Email charles.betz@stthomas.edu Social Interests: Theories of IT management and organization Theories of IT product delivery Agile methods, especially in terms of underlying theory and effective pedagogy Simulations of enterprise IT environments for instructional purposes IT frameworks and bodies of knowledge (ITIL, IT4IT, DPBoK, TOGAF, COBIT) and their relationship to IT operating models Career Highlights: Charles Betz is a principal analyst with Forrester Research, a commercial research firm covering IT, digital transformation, and the Age of the Customer. He is Forresters lead DevOps analyst serving infrastructure and operations professionals globally. and also covers enterprise service management such as service portfolio management, service catalog, service desk, incident and change management, NOC, IT asset management, configuration management, and CMDB. Prior to joining Forrester, Charlie was chief architect for ATTs Signature Client Group, where he was responsible for technical strategy with Fortune 100 clients. He served for six years as senior enterprise architect and VP for business of IT architecture at Wells Fargo. Charlie also held architect and application manager positions for Best Buy, Target, and Accenture, specializing in IT management systems, ERP, enterprise application integration, data architecture, and configuration management. As an independent consultant, he has advised organizations of all sizes on IT operating models and the "business of IT." Charlie has a B.A. (summa) in political science and an M.S. in software engineering, both from the University of Minnesota. He was lead author on the report "Renewing the IT Curriculum: Responding to Digital, Agile, and DevOps," sponsored by the Minnesota State University system, and remains interested in higher education's response to digital transformation and the workforce. He has been an ITIL reviewer, COBIT author, and founding member of the Open Groups IT4IT Forum. Charlie was also an initial reviewer invited by author Gene Kim to collaborate on The Phoenix Project, one of the most influential works in the history of IT management. Charlie has authored two books: Architecture and Patterns for IT (two editions), a reference architecture for IT operating models, and Managing Digital: Concepts and Practices, a survey text incorporating Agile, DevOps, and Lean IT concepts, published by The Open Group Press for MIS and IT students. This material served as the foundation of the Digital Practitioner Body of Knowledge (DPBoK), a new, international standard, open source body of knowledge for the modern digital professional. Charlie currently serves as the chair of the Digital Practioner Working Group and is a designated maintainer of the DPBoK. Courses taught at UST: Information Technology Delivery --SEIS 664 Education: Master of Science, University of MinnesotaBachelor of Science, University of Minnesota Fall 2020 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location J-Term 2021 Courses J-Term 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Spring 2021 Courses Spring 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Admissions Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Directory News Events Sports Make a Gift FaceBook, Connect with St. Thomas on Twitter, Connect with St. Thomas on Google Plus, Connect with St. Thomas on YouTube, Connect with St. Thomas on Pinterest, Connect with St. Thomas on Instagram, Connect with St. Thomas on Maps & Directions Virtual Tour Emergency Jobs EO Statement Privacy Policy University of St. Thomas, Minnesota Graduate Programs in Software 2115 Summit Avenue St. Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA 1 (651) 962-5500 gradsoftware@stthomas.edu Report a Website Problem 2016 University of St. Thomas, Minnesota
