Faculty & Staff | Graduate Programs in Software University of St. Thomas - Minnesota Skip to primary content University of St. Thomas Minnesota A private, Catholic liberal arts university School of Engineering Graduate Programs in Software Site Navigation Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Data Science Information Technology Software Engineering Software Management Earning a Double Major Fast Track Master's Graduate Certificates Artificial Intelligence Big Data Business Analysis Data Management DevOps Embedded Systems Enterprise Computing Healthcare Analytics Internet of Things Advanced Study (Post-master's) Non-Degree ("Just Take a Class") Course Catalog GPS Topics Courses Considering a Ph.D. Prospective Students Admissions Apply for Admission International Applicants Attend an Information Session - ONLINE Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet a Grad Student Frequently Asked Questions International Students Current Students Career Services Course Schedules Commencement Information Computing Resources Forms Helpful Links New Students - Next Steps Orientation Policies Registration Semester Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program What to Expect - Fall 2020 What to Expect - Spring 2021 Alumni & Friends Career Development MBA Opportunity Donations and Mentoring Professional Education Data Analytics with R Mini Master of Big Data & AI Mini Master of Business Analysis Mini Master of Information Technology Mini Masters Faculty About Us Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory Board Center for Applied AI Events News Contact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Graduate Programs in Software About UsFaculty & Staff Professor Emeritus In this Section Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory BoardCenter for Applied AIEventsNewsContact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Brad Rubin Professor Emeritus Degree Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison Email bsrubin@stthomas.edu Social Interests: Hadoop, big data, computer security, information retrieval, quantum computation. Career Highlights: Brad Rubin is Professor Emeritus at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul in the Graduate Programs in Software department where he taught Big Data Architecture, Software Analysis and Design, Computer Security, and Advanced Computer Security.Prior to teaching at St. Thoms, he spent 14 years with IBM in Rochester, MN, working on all facets of the AS/400 hardware and software development, starting with its first release. He was a key player in IBM's move to embrace the Java platform, and was lead architect of IBM's largest Java application, a business application framework product called San Francisco (now part of WebSphere). He was also chief technology officer for the Data Storage and Information Management division of Imation Corp., as well as the leader of its R&D organization.Dr. Rubin has degrees in Computer and Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana, and a Doctorate in Computer Science from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. He holds five patents and four invention disclosures, has authored many research and trade publications, consults, and is a frequent speaker on technology topics. Academic History: Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison M.S. Electrical Engineering, University of Illinois-Urbana B.S. Computer Engineering, University of Illinois-Urbana Fall 2020 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location J-Term 2021 Courses J-Term 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Spring 2021 Courses Spring 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Admissions Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Directory News Events Sports Make a Gift FaceBook, Connect with St. Thomas on Twitter, Connect with St. Thomas on Google Plus, Connect with St. Thomas on YouTube, Connect with St. Thomas on Pinterest, Connect with St. Thomas on Instagram, Connect with St. Thomas on Maps & Directions Virtual Tour Emergency Jobs EO Statement Privacy Policy University of St. Thomas, Minnesota Graduate Programs in Software 2115 Summit Avenue St. Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA 1 (651) 962-5500 gradsoftware@stthomas.edu Report a Website Problem 2016 University of St. Thomas, Minnesota
