Faculty & Staff | Graduate Programs in Software University of St. Thomas - Minnesota Skip to primary content University of St. Thomas Minnesota A private, Catholic liberal arts university School of Engineering Graduate Programs in Software Site Navigation Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Data Science Information Technology Software Engineering Software Management Earning a Double Major Fast Track Master's Graduate Certificates Artificial Intelligence Big Data Business Analysis Data Management DevOps Embedded Systems Enterprise Computing Healthcare Analytics Internet of Things Advanced Study (Post-master's) Non-Degree ("Just Take a Class") Course Catalog GPS Topics Courses Considering a Ph.D. Prospective Students Admissions Apply for Admission International Applicants Attend an Information Session - ONLINE Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet a Grad Student Frequently Asked Questions International Students Current Students Career Services Course Schedules Commencement Information Computing Resources Forms Helpful Links New Students - Next Steps Orientation Policies Registration Semester Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program What to Expect - Fall 2020 What to Expect - Spring 2021 Alumni & Friends Career Development MBA Opportunity Donations and Mentoring Professional Education Data Analytics with R Mini Master of Big Data & AI Mini Master of Business Analysis Mini Master of Information Technology Mini Masters Faculty About Us Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory Board Center for Applied AI Events News Contact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Graduate Programs in Software About UsFaculty & Staff Associate Dean, Graduate Programs In this Section Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory BoardCenter for Applied AIEventsNewsContact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Bhabani Misra Associate Dean, Graduate Programs Degree Ph.D. North Dakota State University, Fargo Office OSS 304 Phone (651) 962-5508 Fax 651-962-5543 Email bsmisra@stthomas.edu Social Career History: Dr. Bhabani Misra, Associate Dean at the University of St. Thomas School of Engineering has been one of the key drivers of the Graduate Programs in Software Engineering for nearly 30 years. Dr. Misra is responsible for about 950 graduate students at the University of St. Thomas School of Engineering, which is made up of both graduate software and graduate engineering students. Dr. Misra has been instrumental in the creation and transformation of innovative programs that have produced more than 4,000 masters degree students in the fields of Software Engineering, Data Science, Information Technology and Software Management.Under his leadership, the Graduate Programs in Software Department remains one of the largest and longest running Software Engineering programs in the nation where more than 650 masters-level students are currently enrolled. In the fall of 2017, Dr. Misra earned the prestigious Tekne Lifetime Achievement Award from the Minnesota High Tech Association. Dr. Misra holds a PhD in Computer Engineering and an MS degree in Computer Science both from North Dakota State University. His bachelors degree is in Electrical Engineering from the National Institute of Technology Rourkela, in India. Prior to working at St. Thomas, Dr. Misra worked at Larsen and Toubro Ltd. in India. He also worked as the Vice President of Information Technology at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. Memberships: Senior member of IEEE Member of IEEE Computer SocietyMember of ACMMember of the Minnesota High Tech Association Academic History: Ph.D. North Dakota State University, Fargo, 1992 MSCS, North Dakota State University, Fargo, 1988BSEE, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, India, 1975 Fall 2020 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location J-Term 2021 Courses J-Term 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Spring 2021 Courses Spring 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Admissions Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Directory News Events Sports Make a Gift FaceBook, Connect with St. Thomas on Twitter, Connect with St. Thomas on Google Plus, Connect with St. Thomas on YouTube, Connect with St. Thomas on Pinterest, Connect with St. Thomas on Instagram, Connect with St. Thomas on Maps & Directions Virtual Tour Emergency Jobs EO Statement Privacy Policy University of St. Thomas, Minnesota Graduate Programs in Software 2115 Summit Avenue St. Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA 1 (651) 962-5500 gradsoftware@stthomas.edu Report a Website Problem 2016 University of St. Thomas, Minnesota
