Faculty & Staff | Graduate Programs in Software University of St. Thomas - Minnesota Skip to primary content University of St. Thomas Minnesota A private, Catholic liberal arts university School of Engineering Graduate Programs in Software Site Navigation Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Data Science Information Technology Software Engineering Software Management Earning a Double Major Fast Track Master's Graduate Certificates Artificial Intelligence Big Data Business Analysis Data Management DevOps Embedded Systems Enterprise Computing Healthcare Analytics Internet of Things Advanced Study (Post-master's) Non-Degree ("Just Take a Class") Course Catalog GPS Topics Courses Considering a Ph.D. Prospective Students Admissions Apply for Admission International Applicants Attend an Information Session - ONLINE Request Information Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet a Grad Student Frequently Asked Questions International Students Current Students Career Services Course Schedules Commencement Information Computing Resources Forms Helpful Links New Students - Next Steps Orientation Policies Registration Semester Dates and Deadlines Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Yellow Ribbon Program What to Expect - Fall 2020 What to Expect - Spring 2021 Alumni & Friends Career Development MBA Opportunity Donations and Mentoring Professional Education Data Analytics with R Mini Master of Big Data & AI Mini Master of Business Analysis Mini Master of Information Technology Mini Masters Faculty About Us Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory Board Center for Applied AI Events News Contact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Graduate Programs in Software About UsFaculty & Staff Adjunct Faculty In this Section Faculty & Staff Mission Goals & Philosophy Strategic Advisory BoardCenter for Applied AIEventsNewsContact Us Featured Links Request Information Events News Contact Us Apply Now Craig Truempi Adjunct Faculty Office OSS 228 Phone 612-599-9052 Email craigtruempi@gmail.com Social Areas of Interest and Expertise: Data science, artificial intelligence, IIoT, predictive and edge analytics, digital ecosystems, and "business results". Career Highlights: Craig currently specializes in artificial intelligence, Internet of Things and digital ecosystems focused on asset management, predictive analytics, and reliability programs. His passion is applying state-of-the-art technology and data science algorithms to automate manual analytics and manual human tasks. Data sources include existing business systems, plant floor systems, wireless and IIOT devices. Industries served include: energy, mining, paper, food, oil and gas, refining, and chemical. Craig offers expertise as president and vice president of small business, chairman, co-chairman, and member of several boards, director of multiple startup business units, published author of numerous data science and artificial intelligence articles, award winning team player, and accomplished executive growing fast, profitable, and productive businesses. In his spare time Craig enjoys being with his wife and four children, being active outdoors, watching youth sports, going to the cabin and exploring in the wilderness. Publications: Vibration Analysis Using Human and Artificial Intelligence - Pump & Systems, June 2019 IoT Enabled Pumps Could Rejuvenate the Oil & Gas Sector Forbes, May 2019 Why move from condition monitoring to predictive maintenance Part 2, IBM Internet of Things Blog, April 2019 Predictive Maintenance vs Legacy Condition Monitoring Pump & Systems, March 2019 Why move from condition monitoring to predictive maintenance Part 1, IBM Internet of Things Blog, March 2019 7 Elements of IoT for Predictive Pump Maintenance Pump & Systems, January 2019 Good Vibrations - Water & Waste Digest, October 2018 Industrial IoT to Drive Production Efficiency, Innovation, Maintenance and Productivity The Fuel Ethanol Workshop & Expo, June 2018 Predictive Analytics in Industrial IoT datascience.com, June 2018 Connecting Machinery to the Internet of Things The Reliability Conference, April 2018 Internet of Things and AI The Reliability Conference, April 2018 Internet of Things and Data Science SMRP, April 2018 Industrial Internet of Condition Monitoring Vibration Institute, Dec 2017 Internet of Things and Data Science IMVAC International Maintenance and Vibration Analysis Conference, Nov 2017 IIoT Connected Condition Monitoring The Reliability Conference, April 2017 Machines cant call in sick IoT Fuse, April 2017 Eliminate the bad bay with wireless vibration monitoring Emerson Global User Exchange, October 2014 Awesome wireless technologies Energy Generation Conference, January 2014 Academic History: BS in Electrical and Electronic Engineering North Dakota State University MBA -University of Minnesota Fall 2020 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location J-Term 2021 Courses J-Term 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Spring 2021 Courses Spring 2021 Courses Course - Section Title Days Time Location Admissions Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Directory News Events Sports Make a Gift FaceBook, Connect with St. Thomas on Twitter, Connect with St. Thomas on Google Plus, Connect with St. Thomas on YouTube, Connect with St. Thomas on Pinterest, Connect with St. Thomas on Instagram, Connect with St. Thomas on Maps & Directions Virtual Tour Emergency Jobs EO Statement Privacy Policy University of St. Thomas, Minnesota Graduate Programs in Software 2115 Summit Avenue St. Paul, Minnesota 55105, USA 1 (651) 962-5500 gradsoftware@stthomas.edu Report a Website Problem 2016 University of St. Thomas, Minnesota
