Dylan Brewer | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Dylan Brewer Assistant Professor Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:brewer@gatech.edu Office Location:224 Old CE Building Related Links: Personal WebsiteCurriculum Vitae Overview Dylan Brewer joined the faculty at the School of Economics in 2019. He received his PhD in Economics with a dual major in Environmental Science and Policy from Michigan State University in May 2019 as well as a Master of Arts degree in Economics from the same institution in 2016. Prior to his graduate studies, Dylan completed a Bachelor of Arts degree with majors in Economics and International Relations at the University of Virginia in 2014. Dylan's research uses the tools of empirical industrial organization, applied econometrics, and machine learning to answer questions in energy and environmental economics. Focusing on incentives for energy use and conservation under different institutional regimes, he emphasizes applying economic insight to problems in energy and the environment by blending theory and empirics with a clear and straightforward analysis. Current projects include research on residential energy use, demand management in electricity markets, and urban issuessuch as street lighting, crime, and taxi demand. Additionally, Dylan is a member of the board of trustees for the State of Michigan Chapter of the Nature Conservancy. Education: Ph.D., Michigan State University M.A., Michigan State University B.A., University of Virginia Research Fields: Energy Economics Environmental Economics Industrial Organization Courses Taught: ECON-2106: Prin of Microeconomics ECON-4440: Economics of Environment ECON-7103: Environmental Econ II Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
