Patrick McCarthy | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Patrick McCarthy Professor Member Of: School of Economics Center for Paper, Business and Industry Studies Email Address:mccarthy@gatech.edu Office Location:Old CE Building, Room 216 Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Dr. Patrick McCarthy is a Professor in the School of Economics in the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts and Director of the Center for Paper Business and Industry Studies (CPBIS) at Georgia Institute of Technology. His research areas include transportation economics, industry studies, regulation, and applied econometrics. He is the author of Transportation Economics Theory and Practice: A Case Study Approach (Blackwell Publishers, 2001), has published widely in academic journals and edited volumes, and has received research funding from the Sloan Foundation, National Institutes of Health, Georgia Department of Transportation, Georgia Tech University Transportation Center, the Federal Aviation Administration, National Science Foundation, and AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety. He is on the editorial boards of Transportation Research: Part E and Journal of Transport Literatureis incoming President of the Transportation Research Forum, and current President of the Transportation and Public Utilities Group.Prior to Georgia Tech, he spent two years at Concordia University (Montreal, Canada) and twenty-two years at Purdue University (West Lafayette, Indiana). He has held visiting positions in Greece, Singapore, Germany, and China. Education: Ph.D., Claremont Graduate University B.A., University of San Diego Research Fields: Applied Econometrics Industry Studies Paper and Pulp Industry Policy Analysis Transportation Economics Courses Taught: ECON-2106: Prin of Microeconomics ECON-3110: Adv Microeconomic Analys ECON-4430: Transportation Economics ECON-6121: Research Methods ECON-6162: Discrete Choice Econ ECON-6341: Transportation Economics ECON-7025: Empirical Res Methods ECON-7026: Microeconomet Analysis Selected Publications Books Transportation Economics Theory and Practice: A Case Study Approach Date: 2001 Unlike any other book available, this collection uses a detailed analysis of econometric results from current transportation literature to provide an integrated collection of theory and application. Case studies are used to illustrate the economic principles developed, while testable hypotheses and economic results are highlighted throughout the text to provide a well-developed introduction to the foundations of transportation economics. View All Details about Transportation Economics Theory and Practice: A Case Study Approach Journal Articles Economic Impact Analysis of GDOT Short Line Railroad Infrastructure Investment in Georgia In: Research in Transportation Economics [Peer Reviewed] Date: June 2019 Short line railroads are critical to Georgia's transportation infrastructure and support the efficient movement of goods into and out of the State. Twenty-nine short line railroads operate in Georgia, six of which operate either partially or totally over 596 miles of rail track that the Georgia Department of Transportation (GDOT) owns. Based on the Bureau of Economic Analysis Regional Input-Output Modelling System (RIMS II) backward-linkage model, this study estimates the economic impacts associated with short line railroad revenues and with GDOT infrastructure spending on these six short line systems under different sets of assumptions. Among the economic impacts, and depending on the assumptions, the study finds that cumulatively, the six systems increase annual output in the range of $2.8 - $14.5 million, increase annual earnings in the range of $0.7 - $4.1 million, generate annual value-added in the range of $1.4 - $7.5 million, and annually add 1093 jobs on average. View All Details about Economic Impact Analysis of GDOT Short Line Railroad Infrastructure Investment in Georgia Private Vehicle Ownership in Provincial China In: Journal of the Transportation Research Forum [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2017 Private vehicle ownership has rapidly grown with Chinas economic development and increasing incomes. This paper analyzes Chinas provincial demands for private vehicles during the post-opening period 2000 2012. Based on estimates from pooled, fixed effects and Hausman-Taylor models, private vehicle ownership during this period grew at an average annual rate of over 20%, all else constant. The study focuses on the roles of economic, spatial, investment and regulatory factors in shaping private vehicle demands. The study finds that increases in GDP per capita and vehicle use cost reinforce and constrain, respectively, the strong trend toward increased ownership. And absent changes in population density, higher percentages of the population in urban areas increase the demand for private vehicles. But increasing population density provides stronger incentives for reducing vehicle demands. Municipal restrictions aimed at reducing the congestion and environmental effects of vehicle ownership and use are effective in reducing provincial demands. A separate analysis of provinces that are at least 60% urbanized identifies important differences. Vehicle demands are income elastic and infrastructure investments have stronger effects in the most urbanized provinces than in less urbanized provinces. View All Details about Private Vehicle Ownership in Provincial China US Airport Costs and Production Technology: A Translog Cost Function Analysis Date: September 2014 From a panel of fifty airports over a 13-year period, this research estimates a translog model of airport short-run operating costs. Output is departures and the effective number of 10,000 by 150 feet runways is a quasi-fixed factor of production. The analysis finds that airports operate under increasing returns to runway utilisation, input demand for general airport operations is price elastic, and inputs are Morishima substitutes in production. A residuals analysis suggests that air cargo, aeronautical and non-aeronautical services, and serving international travellers are important airport cost discriminators. View All Details about US Airport Costs and Production Technology: A Translog Cost Function Analysis Bankruptcy in the Pulp and Paper Industry: Market's Reaction and Prediction Date: December 2013 This paper examines North American pulp and paper company bankruptcies that occurred between 1990 and 2009. We demonstrate that shareholders suffer substantial losses (37%) during the month a bankruptcy occurs. Encouragingly, we show that financial ratios are useful in predicting firm failure and that failed firms are less profitable, more liquidity constrained and higher in debt leverage. Using a binary logit model in the spirit of Ohlson, we predict financial distress for pulp and paper firms 1 to 2 years ahead of the bankruptcy. We also adapt and re-estimate the empirical model on a sample of pulp and paper firms and perform in-sample and out-of-sample forecasts. For the out-of-sample analysis, our re-estimated Ohlson models correctly predict 93% of bankruptcy and non-bankruptcy outcomes. View All Details about Bankruptcy in the Pulp and Paper Industry: Market's Reaction and Prediction Airport Runway Capacity and Economic Development: A Panel Data Analysis of Metropolitan Statistical Areas Date: August 2013 Using an aggregate production function, the impact of runways at commercial airports on several measures of metropolitan statistical areas economic welfare in combination with labor, private capital, and public-sector capital is estimated. By focusing on runways at commercial airports, we estimate the impact of reducing congestion that sets in and takeoffs and landings as air activity nears the technical limit for safe operations. Both the number of runways and the maximum length of runway available at a given airport correlate positively with real gross metropolitan product with a negative cross product between the two, suggesting a trade-off between the number of flights possible and the size of the aircraft that can use the airport. Additional analysis examines the impact of additional runways on other measures of economic activity. View All Details about Airport Runway Capacity and Economic Development: A Panel Data Analysis of Metropolitan Statistical Areas Long-Run Equilibrium and Short-Run Dynamics Between Risk Exposure and Highway Safety Date: June 2012 Based upon monthly California data, this exploratory analysis uses vector error correction methods and associated statistical tests to identify the long-run relationship and the short-run dynamics between highway exposure and crashes. The analysis finds that there is a cointegrating relationship between exposure and crashes, and for fatal, serious injury, and materials crashes, could not reject the hypothesis that crash exposure and frequency move proportionately. The analysis indicates that vector error correction models may be an important tool for improving our understanding of highway crashes and the near and longer term impacts of alternative safety policies. View All Details about Long-Run Equilibrium and Short-Run Dynamics Between Risk Exposure and Highway Safety Production and Cost in the U.S. Paper and Paperboard Industry Date: June 2011 The US paper and paperboard industry has experienced significant structural changes over the past 25 years, including reductions in the number of mills, lower rates of capacity growth, employment cutbacks and a loss of market share to foreign competitors. These structural shifts portray an industry that increasingly has difficulty adapting to a more competitive global environment. Based on aggregate data from 1965 to 1996, this article estimates a short-run translog (TL) cost function for the industry. The estimated model fits the data well and all sample points satisfy monotonicity and concavity conditions at all points. Among the findings, the industry operates at slightly increasing returns to capital utilization and labour and energy are AllenUzawa complements but Morishima substitutes in production. Technological progress generated 0.02% reduction in annual operating costs and consistent with an ailing US industry, estimated marginal costs approximated average operating costs until 1982 after which marginal costs significantly diverged from average operating costs. View All Details about Production and Cost in the U.S. Paper and Paperboard Industry Regional Demands for Pulp and Paper Products Date: April 2010 The pulp and paper industry has experienced dramatic changes during the past several decades with large variations in world regional market shares of production capacity and consumption patterns. Based on panel data available (19612000) from the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, this paper estimates dynamic demand models for pulp and paper products in four major trading regions: Asia, Europe, the North American Free Trade Agreement Area, and South America. With or without price in the model, short-run demands are generally output inelastic. However, without price in the model, long-run output elasticities were more elastic, particularly in the Paper/Paperboard, Printing/Writing, and Household/Sanitary sectors with most elasticities greater than 1. With price included in the model, long-run demands were generally output inelastic, with primary exceptions being the Paper/Paperboard sector for all but the NAFTA region and Wrapping/Packaging for Asia and South America. Price was generally significant with long-run elasticities, in absolute value, in the (0.05, 0.11) range. And as a measure of urbanization, the percent of the population living in urban areas significantly affects consumption in total and in the Pulp and Printing/Writing sectors. View All Details about Regional Demands for Pulp and Paper Products Economic Transition and Product Demand Pattern in China: Evidence from China's Paper and Paperboard Industry Date: September 2006 In this study, we investigate the demand pattern and structural changes during the economic transformation using data from the paper and paperboard industry in China. Instrumental variable estimations as well as co-integration analysis and error correction models are applied to the analysis. Our results show that in the early stages of economic reform before 1993, the demand did not respond to price changes; while in the later stages, the demand shows significant responses to its own-price and the price of international markets. In particular, since 1992, the own and cross-price elasticity of demand for domestically made paper and paperboard products becomes, respectively, 0.69 and 0.59, in the range found in some market economies. We also find that imports are substitutes for domestically made paper and paperboard products, but the reverse is not true; and in the later stage of economic transition, the reliance on international market has increased, as reflected by the lower price elasticity of imports. View All Details about Economic Transition and Product Demand Pattern in China: Evidence from China's Paper and Paperboard Industry Road Safety, Alcohol, and Public Policy Date: September 2005 Special Issue Editorial View All Details about Road Safety, Alcohol, and Public Policy How Alcohol-Related Crashes of Different Severity Interrelate and Respond to Local Spatial Characteristics: An Evaluation of a Common Site Sales Ban on Alcohol and Gasoline Date: March 2005 Highway safety is an important issue in both urban and rural areas. Based upon a unique panel of incorporated cities over a 96-month period from January 1982 to December 1989, this paper evaluates the effects of the State of Californias ban on common site sales of gasoline and alcohol to curb drunk driving. Geographic information systems (GIS) contribute spatial variables to an analysis of the impact of the ban on several categories of alcohol related crashes: fatalities, serious injuries, and property damage. By considering the types of alcohol-related crashes for the ve-county Los Angeles area as interrelated, a seemingly unrelated regression (SUR) model locates more precise impacts. Overall the ban appears to reduce fatalities, serious injuries, and property damage crashes; but in relatively less population dense cities, the ban increases property damage and may increase more serious crashes in some urban neighborhoods. This suggests that the ban discourages highly impaired drivers but may motivate less impaired drivers to travel to an alternate alcohol purchase site. Diverse experiences in adjacent municipalities warn large regional or nation-wide evaluations of highway safety to take care when adopting large region or state xed eect adjusters in analyses that presume sub-region homogeneity. View All Details about How Alcohol-Related Crashes of Different Severity Interrelate and Respond to Local Spatial Characteristics: An Evaluation of a Common Site Sales Ban on Alcohol and Gasoline Alcohol, Public Policy, and Highway Crashes: A Time Series Analysis of Older Driver Behavior Date: January 2005 The increasing proportion of older persons in the population has significant implications for mobility in the US and the safety performance of the US highway system. Health problems, loss of dexterity, medication, and slower reaction times are among the factors that affect olderdriverinvolved highway safety. Based upon timeseries data from January 1981 through December 1998 for California, this study estimates multiple order autoregression models to analyse highway crashes involving older drivers. The results indicate that risk exposure is an important determinant of highway safety, with the greatest effects on fatal crashes in total and on alcoholrelated fatal crashes when at least one driver is over the legal limit. Other important factors include alcohol availability, hospital accessibility, and the proportion of older drivers. Alcoholrelated legislation had little effect on olderdriver crashes when at least one driver was over the legal blood alcohol concentration (BAC) limit and increasing speed limits to 70 mph decreased nonfatal injury crashes at the expense of fatal crashes. View All Details about Alcohol, Public Policy, and Highway Crashes: A Time Series Analysis of Older Driver Behavior Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
