Justin Burkett | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Justin Burkett Associate Professor Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:justin.burkett@gatech.edu Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Justin Burkett joined Georgia Tech as an Assistant Professor in August 2018. His research is in the area of microeconomic theory called market design, which studies the design of real-world market institutions that allocate goods as diverse as US Treasury Bonds and public school seats. The aim of Dr. Burkett'sresearch and of the field more generally is to provide practical solutions for any deficiencies in existing institutions, usually related to the incentives implied by its current design. Dr. Burkett's work has appeared in academic journals such as Journal of Economic Theory, Theoretical Economics, and Experimental Economics. Before joining Georgia Tech, he earned his PhD in Economics from the University of Maryland, College Park and wasan Assistant Professor at Wake Forest University. Education: Ph.D., University of Maryland B.A., Washington University in Saint Louis Research Fields: Game Theory Market Design, Auctions and Contract Theory Microtheory Courses Taught: ECON-4180: Game Theory Economics ECON-7013: Microeconomic Theory II Selected Publications Journal Articles Optimal Quantity Caps in Discriminatory Auctions with Resale In: Theoretical Economics [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2020 We present a model of a discriminatory price auction in which a large bidder competes against many small bidders, followed by a postauction resale stage in which the large bidder is endogenously determined to be a buyer or a seller. We extend results on firstprice auctions with resale to this setting and use these results to give a tractable characterization of equilibrium behavior. We use this characterization to study the policy of capping the amount that may be won by large bidders in the auction, a policy that has received little attention in the auction literature. Our analysis shows that the tradeoffs involved when adjusting these quantity caps can be understood in terms familiar to students of asymmetric firstprice singleunit auctions. Furthermore, whether one seeks to maximize welfare or revenue can have contradictory implications for the choice of cap. View All Details about Optimal Quantity Caps in Discriminatory Auctions with Resale Information Disclosure in Auctions with Downstream Competition In: Economic Letters [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2018 When bidders valuations are derived from a downstream market in which they may compete, the allocation to the firms with the lowest costs can differ from the allocation that maximizes the ex post valuations of the bidders. I consider the problem of auctioning two goods to bidders whose valuations for a good flexibly depend on their and their rivals costs as well as the identity of the rival. I show that revealing the identities of winners through a sequential auction procedure leads to allocations in which bidders tend to have higher ex post valuations but also higher costs when compared to a simultaneous auction. View All Details about Information Disclosure in Auctions with Downstream Competition Large Multi-Unit Auctions with a Large Bidder In: Journal of Economic Theory [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2018 We compare equilibrium bidding in uniform-price and discriminatory auctions when a single large bidder (i.e., with multi-unit demand) competes against many small bidders, each with single-unit demands. We show that the large bidder prefers the discriminatory auction over the uniform-price auction, and we provide general conditions under which small bidders have the reverse preference. We use examples to show that the efficiency and revenue rankings of the two auctions are ambiguous. View All Details about Large Multi-Unit Auctions with a Large Bidder Allocating Group Housing In: Social Choice and Welfare [Peer Reviewed] Date: November 2017 We study mechanisms for allocating objects to pairs of agents when agents may have nontrivial preferences over objects and pairings. In this environment, the mechanism may distort agents preferences over pairings. Compared to certain distortive mechanisms, a non-distortive one always has a stable allocation in our model, and selects stable outcomes that are ex ante preferred by all students under a regularity condition on the distribution of pair values. View All Details about Allocating Group Housing Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
