Maxwell Rosenthal | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Maxwell Rosenthal Assistant Professor Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:rosenthal@gatech.edu Office Location:Old CE 219 Related Links: Personal WebsiteCurriculum Vitae Overview Max Rosenthal joined the School of Economics at Georgia Tech as an Assistant Professor in August 2019. His research mostly lies in the area of microeconomic theory, with primary emphases on contract theory and mechanism design and a secondary concentration in behavioral economics. In particular, Max has recently studied the incorporation of consumer choice data into the design and pricing of complex products. Elsewhere, he has investigated risk taking in moral hazard problems by individuals with heterogeneous risk preferences, with applications to employment contracting and executive compensation. More broadly, Maxs work is concerned with the implications of uncertainty for the design of incentives and the allocation of goods. Before coming to Georgia Tech, Max completed his doctoral studies in Economics at the University of Arizona. Education: Ph.D., University of Arizona M.A., University of Colorado Denver B.A., University of Colorado Research Fields: Behavioral Economics Game Theory Market Design, Auctions and Contract Theory Microtheory Courses Taught: ECON-6106: Microeconomic Analysis ECON-7012: Microeconomic Theory I Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
