Michael Kummer | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Michael Kummer Adjunct Assistant Professor Member Of: School of Economics Related Links: Personal Website Overview Dr. Michael Kummer is a lecturer in the School of Economics at the University of East Anglia. Prior to this, Dr. Kummer wasan Associate Professor of Economics at Georgia Tech. His research interests focus on the generation of user generated content in networks, the structure of online markets, as well as the interaction of firms and consumers online. Dr. Kummer has also been a postdoctoral researcher at the Centre for European Economic Research (ZEW) in Mannheim, Germany. Joining ZEW in 2009, he was in the ZEW Doctoral Studies Network Program (DocNet) and obtained his PhD from the University of Mannheim in September 2014. Prior to earning his PhD, Kummer studied Economics at the University of Vienna, obtained his M.S. in Mathematical Economics from the Toulouse School of Economics, and was a research assistant at the Johannes Kepler University, Linz. Education: Ph.D., University of Mannheim M.S., Toulouse School of Economics M.A., University of Vienna Research Fields: Applied Econometrics Applied Microeconomics Economics of Telecommunications Networks Industrial Organization GeographicFocuses: Asia (East) Europe North America Issues: Digital Communication Infrastructure Privacy Science and Technology Courses Taught: ECON-6460: Industrial Organization ECON-7022: Econometrics I ECON-7112: Industrial Organization II Selected Publications Journal Articles Market Structure and Market Performance in E-Commerce Date: May 2014 We analyze the interaction between market structure and market performance and how it varies over the product cycle. To account for the potential endogeneity in this relation, we use an instrumental variable approach. We combine data from the largest Austrian online market for price comparisons with retail data on wholesale prices provided by a major hardware producer for consumer electronics. Our results show that instrumenting is important for estimating the empirical effect of competition on the markup of the price leader. One more firm in the market is associated with a reduction of the price leaders markup which is equivalent to competition between existing firms for an additional 3weeks in the product life cycle. Our results support search theoretic models and contradict models of monopolistic competition. Moreover our results support the existence of price dynamics over the product cycle. They also highlight the substitutability between newly innovated and old expiring technologies and how it varies with respect to competitors and own brand innovations. View All Details about Market Structure and Market Performance in E-Commerce 99 Cent: Price Points in E-Commerce Date: March 2014 Setting prices ending in nines is a common feature of many markets for consumer products. This prevalence has been explained either by a specific image of such price points or by the exploitation of rational inattention on the part of the consumers who want to economize on the cost of information processing. We use data from an Austrian price comparison site and find a remarkable prevalence of such price setting. Prices ending with nine are also sticky: price-setters change them with a significantly lower probability; rivals underbid these prices more seldom if they represent the cheapest price on the market, and we observe higher price jumps by price leaders for these price points. Finally, we explore the impact of these price points on the consumers demand. View All Details about 99 Cent: Price Points in E-Commerce Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
