Aselia Urmanbetova | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Aselia Urmanbetova Associate Academic Professional Member Of: School of Economics Center for Paper, Business and Industry Studies Email Address:aselia@gatech.edu Office Location:Old Civil Engineering, Room 205 Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Aselia Urmanbetova is an Associate Academic Professional in the School of Economics. Aselia's primary goal as an educator is ensuring that students in her classes feel that they can succeed and engage with economics course material in equitable and fun ways. She uses multiple active learning modalities that emphasize skill acquisition, application of knowledge to today's policy landscape, and long-term retention. In addition to teaching, Aselia is actively engaged in student life as the primary advisor to Econ Minors, GT Econ Club, and Gatech's chapter of the ODE -- the international economics honor society. As an Yellow Jacket alumna, Aselia enjoys getting to know her students in and outside of class, and is an active service contributor to various initiatives focused on sustainability, equity, diversity, inclusion, mental health and wellbeing of all stakeholders on college campuses. Her research areas include open education resources, active learning pedagogies, industry studies, environmental policy, economic development, and transportation economics. She has publications on the pulp and paper industry, U.S. manufacturing technology, and the role of education in China's economic development. Outside of work, Aselia pursues an active life style as an avid yoga practitioner with 200 hours in YTT training and a certified dance enthusiast. Education: Ph.D. in Public Policy, Georgia Institute of Technology M.S. in Economics, Georgia Institute of Technology Master In International Relations, Georgia Institute of Technology B.B.A., Emory University Research Fields: Economic Policy Education Policy Environmental Regulations GeographicFocuses: Asia (North) / Eurasia United States United States - Georgia Issues: Regional Development Accessibility Globalization and Localization Higher Education: Teaching and Learning Sustainability Courses Taught: ECON-2105: Prin of Macroeconomics ECON-4412: Cost-Benefit Analysis ECON-4811: Special Topics ECON-8801: Special Topics Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
