Mikhail Klimenko | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Mikhail Klimenko Associate Professor Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:mikhail.klimenko@econ.gatech.edu Office Location:Old CE Building, Room 320 Related Links: Personal WebsiteCurriculum Vitae Overview Dr. Mikhail Klimenko received his PhD in Business from Stanford University. He joined the Georgia Tech faculty as an Associate Professor of Economics in the School of Economics in 2004. A specialist in international trade theory and policy and telecommunications economics, he has authored multiple papers and book chapters and presented numerous conference papers. His most recent publication is"Duration and Term Structure of Trade Agreements" is in The Economic Journal 125 (2015), pp. 1818-1849. Professor Klimenko previously taught at the University of California in San Diego and has held visiting appointments at Nankai University (China), the European University (Russia), SKEMA Business School (France), Universitat Autnoma de Barcelona (Spain), and St. Petersburg State University (Russia). He has received research support from the National Science Foundation, the French Fondation Nationale des Sciences Politiques (Sciences Po), and the Net Institute and served as reviewer for a number of economics journals and expert advisory panels. He has also served as a consultant for the World Bank. His recent teaching has included courses in Microeconomics, International Trade Theory, Economics of Telecommunications, and Law and Economics of the World Trading System. He served as Director of Graduate Studies in the Georgia Tech School of Economics from 2005 to 2011. Education: Ph.D., Stanford University M.A., Stanford University M.A., Brown University Research Fields: Economics of Telecommunications Networks Industrial Organization International Trade Microtheory GeographicFocuses: Asia (East) Europe North America United States Issues: Globalization and Localization International Trade and Investment Courses Taught: ECON-2100: Economics and Policy ECON-2101: The Global Economy ECON-4350: International Economics ECON-4357: Law&Econ-Global Trading ECON-4360: Network Economics ECON-6650: International Economics ECON-7121: International Econ I Selected Publications Journal Articles Duration and Term Structure of Trade Agreements Date: December 2015 We use a dynamic incomplete contracting model to show that time structure of trade agreements is related to the characteristics of trade-facilitating investments. If these investments are specialised to trade in a particular homogeneous good, fixed-term agreements are more likely. Fixed-term agreements provide incentives for the initial investment but leave the parties the flexibility to revisit the need for future investment. If the agreement covers trade in multiple sectors or differentiated goods or services, inter-sectoral spillovers reduce risks of overinvestment. In this case, the parties are more likely to choose an evergreen agreement (with an advance termination notice). View All Details about Duration and Term Structure of Trade Agreements Policies and International Trade Agreements on Technical Compatibility for Industries with Network Externalities Date: April 2009 The paper considers a country (home) in which consumers have heterogeneous preferences over ex ante incompatible domestic and imported products and benefit from a network externality. We analyze the cases with trade under perfect competition and the international duopoly, in which both governments strategically use policies toward compatibility but cannot use conventional trade policies. In both cases, the equilibrium outcome of the non-cooperative game depends upon the strength of the network externality effect and involves either an excessively high equilibrium level of compatibility (in combination with either too much or too little trade) or very low equilibrium levels of both compatibility and trade. The paper concludes with the analysis of the international agreements on policies toward compatibility and evaluates the existing provisions in the WTO legal system aimed at minimizing the trade-inhibiting impact of standards and regulations in the area of technical compatibility. View All Details about Policies and International Trade Agreements on Technical Compatibility for Industries with Network Externalities Recurrent Trade Agreements and the Value of External Enforcement Date: March 2008 This paper presents a theory of dynamic trade agreements in which external institutions, such as the WTO, play a central role in supporting credible enforcement. In our model, countries engage in ongoing negotiations, and, as a consequence, cooperative agreements become unsustainable in the absence of external enforcement institutions. By using mechanisms such as delays in dispute resolution and direct penalties, enforcement institutions can restore incentives for cooperation, despite the lack of coercive power. The occurrence of costly trade disputes, and the feasibility of mechanisms such as escape clauses, depend on the degree to which enforcement institutions can verify, and condition on, events that may lead to trade disputes. View All Details about Recurrent Trade Agreements and the Value of External Enforcement Technical Compatibility and the Mode of Foreign Entry with Network Externalities Date: February 2007 We examine the preferences of a foreign firm and a local government over two modes of foreign direct investment: de novo entry and acquisition of the domestic incumbent. Two crucial features of the model are network externalities and partial incompatibility between the domestic and the foreign technology. The relative welfare impact of the two entry modes depends on the degree of market competition and the strength of the network externality. The clash between the foreign firm's choice and the local government's ranking of the two entry modes can motivate limits on the degree of foreign ownership of the local firm. View All Details about Technical Compatibility and the Mode of Foreign Entry with Network Externalities Industrial Targeting, Experimentation and Long-Run Specialization Date: February 2004 This paper emphasizes the experimental nature of industrial targeting policies under uncertainty in a small open economy. A government promotes entry of new firms in selected industries and updates its beliefs about the country's comparative advantage in a Bayesian way. This selective targeting policy is analyzed in the framework of a special type of statistical decision problem known as the multi-armed bandit. The paper analyzes how the costs and benefits of learning about a country's comparative advantage depend on the characteristics of the targeted industries. The framework suggests that even an optimally designed industrial targeting policy may eventually steer the country away from specializing according to its true comparative advantage. View All Details about Industrial Targeting, Experimentation and Long-Run Specialization Trade Interdependence, the International Financial Institutions, and the Recent Evolution of Sovereign-Debt Renegotiations Date: October 2002 This paper analyzes the effect of a debtor countrys pattern of trade with commercial creditors home countries on the outcome of debt-rescheduling negotiations. The analysis reveals that a debtor country with more market power has greater leverage in a three-way debt-rescheduling negotiation that includes the debtor country, its creditors and the International Financial Institutions (IFIs). The paper also considers the effects of the IFI sovereign-debt policy on the bargaining power of the parties in debt-rescheduling negotiations. Two bargaining frameworks analyzed and compared in the paper represent the negotiation mechanism at different stages of the IFI sovereign-debt policy evolution. View All Details about Trade Interdependence, the International Financial Institutions, and the Recent Evolution of Sovereign-Debt Renegotiations Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
