Nino Abashidze | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Nino Abashidze Postdoctoral Fellow Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:nabashidze6@gatech.edu Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Dr. Abashidze is a postdoctoral researcher in the Health Economics & Analytics Lab at Georgia Tech. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Dr. Abashidze received her Ph.D. in Economics from North Carolina State University in 2019. Her research, which is highly interdisciplinary in nature, focuses on exploring the health and property value impacts of locally undesirable land uses on neighboring communities. Specifically, she examines the effect of utility-scale solar installations on residential and agricultural property values. She also analyzes the impact of negative land uses that are known point sources for environmental contaminants on health outcomes among the elderly and infant populations in surrounding communities. Dr. Abashidzes research interests include environmental economics, health economics, land use economics, and applied econometrics. In addition to her research, she has experience teaching both undergraduate and graduate-level classes. Education: Ph.D., North Carolina State University (NCSU) M.A., North Carolina State University (NCSU) M.A. International School of Economics at TSU (ISET) B.A. Ivane Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University (TSU) Research Fields: Applied Econometrics Environmental Economics Health Economics Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
