Elena Antoniadou | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Elena Antoniadou Lecturer Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:elena.antoniadou@econ.gatech.edu Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Dr Antoniadou is a part-time instructor, having taught economics at Emory University for the past four years. She teaches microeconomics classes. Dr Antoniadous current research focuses on models of choice under uncertainty when consumers face multiple imperfectly substitutable risks and when uncertainty is not resolved prior to consumption, thus leading to interaction and trade-off between consumption preferences and attitudes to risk. These models are applicable to financial decision making but also to non-financial risks such as health risks. Dr Antoniadou previously taught at the University of Virginia, Australian National University, the University of Cyprus, University of London and Cambridge University. She has worked in various roles, including regulatory oversight, in the Australian Federal government, and has been involved with private start-ups. Research Fields: Microtheory Courses Taught: ECON-2100: Economics and Policy ECON-4340: Industrial Organization ECON-6106: Microeconomic Analysis ECON-6460: Industrial Organization ECON-8801: Special Topics Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
