Seung Hoon Lee | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Seung Hoon Lee Assistant Professor Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:seunghoon@econ.gatech.edu Office Location:Old CE Building, Room 220 Related Links: Personal WebsiteCurriculum Vitae Overview Seung Hoon Lee received his PhD in Economics from Stanford University. His research is in the field of international economics with particular interest in trade policy and trade finance. In order to clearly interpret various economic mechanisms, he builds a model, derives its theoretical implications, and tests these implications with data. Education: Ph.D., Stanford University B.S., University of Minnesota - Twin Cities Research Fields: International Economics International Trade International Trade Policy Urban Economics Courses Taught: ECON-4421: Urban & Regional Econ ECON-6330: Urban & Regional Econ ECON-7004: Math for Economists ECON-7122: International Econ II Selected Publications Journal Articles Political Influence and Trade Uncertainty: Evidence from Sanction Threats and Impositions In: Economics Bulletin [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2018 Abstract:This paper examines how uncertainty arising from sanction threats impacts international trade. By separately examining the threat stages of sanctions to the actual imposition of sanctions, we distinguish the impact of political uncertainty on trade from that of actual trade disruption. We find that US sanction threats significantly reduce US bilateral trade with target countries. The effect is larger when the target is a nondemocratic state and when sanctions are politically motivated. View All Details about Political Influence and Trade Uncertainty: Evidence from Sanction Threats and Impositions Risk Sharing and Export Performance with Firm Heterogeneity Date: 2018 We investigate how market uncertainty affects the export performance of a firm through financial frictions. We first extend Melitzs (2003) heterogeneous firm trade model by incorporating demand shocks, linking the demand uncertainties to the financing costs of firms. In this extension, the default probability is endogenously determined by a firms productivity and demand uncertainty. Hence, firms with higher productivity or lower market uncertainty are offered lower interest rates and thus show better export performance. As an application, we also show that a risk-sharing mechanism, that pools default risk for a certain group of firms, lowers the default risk. This mechanism allows banks to charge lower interest rates to the member firms and therefore ultimately improves their export performance in both extensive and intensive margins. We find a real-world example of such a mechanism from business groups in Korea. Using Korean firm-level data, we show that the more diversified the business group, the greater the likelihood that its member firms export and the bigger their export revenues. We also show that our results are robust to alternative explanations for Korean business groups export competitiveness View All Details about Risk Sharing and Export Performance with Firm Heterogeneity Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
