Rick Fritz | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Rick Fritz Lecturer Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:richard.fritz@econ.gatech.edu Office Location:Old CE Building, Room 237 Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Dr. Fritz began teaching part-time at Georgia Tech in 1988. Dr. Fritz has held faculty positions at Boston University, the University of Vermont, the University of Central Florida, and Wake Forest University. His corporate experience includes Chief Economist and Director of Corporate Communications at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. Dr. Fritzs research has addressed public policy issues involving the financial services industries, housing markets, and regional economic fluctuations. He has written on financial institutions, real estate markets, residential construction activity, and the impact of tourism development. Dr. Fritzs research has been published in books, professional journals, and the publications of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. Dr. Fritz is also a contributing author to the Chartered Financial Analysts Investment Series, Economics for Investment Decision Makers. Dr. Fritz received his undergraduate education at Florida State University. He received his Ph.D. in Economics from Georgetown University. Dr. Fritz completed his education with post-doctoral studies in applied system dynamics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Research Areas: Housing Market Fluctuations Monetary Policy Regional Economic Development Courses Taught: ECON 2100: Economics and Policy ECON 2105: Principles of Macroeconomics ECON 2106: Principles of Microeconomics Education: Ph.D., Georgetown University M.S., Florida State University B.A., Florida State University Research Fields: Housing Market Fluctuations Monetary Policy Regional Economic Development Courses Taught: ECON-2100: Economics and Policy ECON-2101: The Global Economy ECON-2105: Prin of Macroeconomics ECON-2106: Prin of Microeconomics Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
