Usha Nair-Reichert | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Usha Nair-Reichert Associate Professor and Director of Masters Program Member Of: School of Economics Technology Policy and Assessment Center Email Address:usha.nair@gatech.edu Fax Number:404-894-1890 Office Location:Old CE Building, Room 206 Related Links: Curriculum Vitae Overview Dr. Nair-Reichert is an Associate Professor in the School of Economics. Her current research interests include (i) innovation ecosystems (ii) firm strategies related to innovation, globalization of R&D, trade, foreign direct investment, technology licensing and acquisition, and sustainability (iii) environmental regulations and their impact on firm strategy, innovation, trade and foreign direct investment (iv) partnerships, policies and collaborations for economic development, with specific focus on education, infrastructure, and health care. Dr. Nair-Reichert worked on funded projects related to supply chains, innovation and efficiency gains in the pulp and paper industry, biotechnology, telecommunications, energy, affirmative action, and educational outcomes. She has received funding from sources such as the Center for Paper Business and Industry Studies, Center for International Business Education and Research, and Power4Georgians. She recently received a Fulbright Specialists award for a project in Poland. Dr. Nair-Reichert has published in peer reviewed journals including the Journal of International Economics, Review of Economics and Statistics, Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, Research Policy, International Organization, World Development and Review of International Economics. She is a member of the American Economic Association, International Economics and Finance Society, the European Economics and Finance Society, and the Association of Indian Economic and Financial Studies. She also serves on the Advisory Board of the European Economics and Finance Society. Dr. Nair-Reichert obtained her Ph.D. in Economics from the Krannert School of Management at Purdue University specializing in international trade, international business, econometrics and economic development. She joined the faculty at the School of Economics at Georgia Institute of Technology in 1995. She served as interim School Chair during the academic year 2011-12. As part of a select leadership program of the University System of Georgia, she was also an Executive Leadership Institute Scholar from Georgia Tech during 2011-2012. She is a faculty associate with the Science, Technology and Innovation Policy Program at Georgia Tech and a core faculty member at the Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER) at Georgia Tech. Prior to her graduate work at Purdue, she was employed in the banking sector in India where she has worked in areas related to trade and foreign exchange regulations, imports and exports, multinational investment, technology transfer, and introduction and integration of computerized check processing technologies. Dr. Nair-Reichert has servedas a trustee at The Westminster Schools,the Trinity Schooland the Georgia Tech Athletics Association Board. She is also a member of SHECON, a nonprofit group working with micro finance lending and economic development projects in Haiti. She enjoys reading, traveling, and experiencing new cultures. She is an ardent believer in the power of education to inspire people, change lives, and transform society. Education: Ph.D., Purdue University M.A., Pachaiyappas College B.A., Ethiraj College Awards andDistinctions: 2015: Fulbright Specialist Award 2011-2012: Executive Leadership Institute Scholar, USG Research Fields: Development Economics Economic Sustainability Firm Strategy International Economics Policy Analysis Technology and Innovation GeographicFocuses: Asia (East) Asia (South) Europe Latin America and Caribbean United States United States - Georgia United States - Southeast Issues: Energy Environment Gender Inequality and Social Justice International Development Regional Development Business Strategy Education Education Policy Globalization and Localization Innovation Institution-Building Intellectual Property Law International Collaboration and Partnership Development International Trade and Investment Regulation Science and Technology Sustainability Technology Courses Taught: ECON-2101: The Global Economy ECON-4311: Global Enterprise ECON-4350: International Economics ECON-6431: Global Enterprise ECON-6650: International Economics ECON-7121: International Econ I ECON-7130: Res Dev & Pres Workshop Selected Publications Journal Articles Agglomeration effects and spatial spillovers in efficiency analysis: a distribution-free methodology In: Regional Studies [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2019 Technical efficiency estimates using standard stochastic frontier models do not include spillover effects, although the existence of such spillovers is well documented in the productivity literature. This paper proposes a regression-based, distribution-free estimation method applicable to both time-varying efficiency spatial stochastic frontier and fixed effects spatial autoregressive models, which is relatively easy to estimate. The empirical results from the Indian chemical industry illustrate that ignoring spatial dependence may seriously distort estimates for efficiency rankings. The average overall spillover effect on a firms efficiency is 7.20 percentage points, or an average positive spillover effect of US$4.9 million in sales revenue. View All Details about Agglomeration effects and spatial spillovers in efficiency analysis: a distribution-free methodology Investment-specific productivity and the role of imported equipment in Latin America In: Applied Economic Letters [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2019 We measure the contribution of imported equipment to labour productivity growth in 12 Latin American countries between 1970 and 2016, accounting for investment-specific technological change embodied in equipment. We link investment-specific technological change with falling relative equipment prices and construct its empirical counterpart by combining observations from each countrys transport, machinery, computers and communication equipment with household consumption data. By excluding structures from our relative equipment price series, we produce more precise growth decompositions, separating investment-specific technological change in equipment from the traditional, Hicks-neutral form of technological progress. Our results show significant variation in the contribution of imported equipment to growth across Latin America. Within country, matched-pair tests indicate that all factors, including imported equipment, make positive and significant contributions to growth. However, cross-country heterogeneity makes identifying significant contributors difficult in a pooled sample. View All Details about Investment-specific productivity and the role of imported equipment in Latin America Impact of Federal Income Tax Rates and Federal Borrowing on Nominal Interest Rate Yields on Tax-Free Municipal Bonds In: Journal of Financial Economic Policy [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2017 Purpose This study investigates the impact of federal income tax rates and budget deficits on the nominal interest rate yield on high-grade municipal tax-free bonds (municipals) in the US. The 58-year study period covers the years 1959 through 2016 and thus is very recent. Design/methodology/approach The study develops a loanable funds model that allows for various financial market factors. Once developed, the model is estimated by autoregressive two-stage least squares, with a Newey-West heteroskedasticity correction. Findings The nominal interest rate yield on municipals is a decreasing function of the maximum marginal federal personal income tax rate and an increasing function of the federal budget deficit (expressed as a per cent of GDP). This yield is also an increasing function of nominal interest rate yields on three- and ten-year treasury notes and expected inflation. Research limitations/implications When introducing additional interest rates such as treasury bills as explanatory variables, multi-collinearity becomes a serious problem. Practical implications This study indicates that lower maximum federal personal income tax rates and larger federal budget deficits, both act to raise borrowing costs for cities (of all sizes), counties and states across the country. Given the study period of 58 years, these relationships appear to be enduring ones that responsible policy-makers should not overlook. Social implications Tax reform and debt management need to be conducted in a very circumspect fashion. Originality/value No recent study investigating the impact of the two key policy variables in this study has been published. View All Details about Impact of Federal Income Tax Rates and Federal Borrowing on Nominal Interest Rate Yields on Tax-Free Municipal Bonds Access to Higher Public Education and Location Choices of Undocumented Migrants: An Exploratory Analysis Date: May 2015 Many states have experienced a large influx of undocumented migrants in recent years. This phenomenon has created new demands on higher educational systems at the state level. Some states have passed legislation to restrict the access of undocumented migrants to higher public education whereas others provide access in various forms including in-state tuition. Our research examines a related issue that has not been researched much, namely, the impact of educational access on the location decisions of undocumented migrants in the U.S. Undocumented migrants appear to locate in states with high average median real per capita incomes. There is also evidence of clustering of undocumented migrants in states with large migrant networks. The effect of educational access on the percentage of undocumented workers in a state is mixed and small in most specifications, a finding perhaps indicative of a trade-off between competing priorities in the choice of location. View All Details about Access to Higher Public Education and Location Choices of Undocumented Migrants: An Exploratory Analysis US Trade and Access to Trade Facilitating Services in Partner Countries: An Empirical Analysis Date: September 2011 The issue of liberalization of international trade in services has received considerable attention in recent years. One of the benefits discussed in the literature is the role of services in facilitating goods trade among countries. We test this claim by analyzing the impact of trade in services on manufactured goods exports to the U.S. using data for 30 trading partners for the period 1992-2000. We use Instrumental Variable estimation to control for potential endogeniety. Our analysis also addresses the debates regarding whether services trade and goods trade are substitutes or complements. The answer depends upon whether imported services are used more intensively in the traded goods sector or in the non-traded goods sector. The key empirical results indicate that, on average, aggregate service imports from the U.S. have a significant and positive impact on goods exports to the U.S. in the case of low income nations but not in the case of high income countries. In most cases, the impact is significant and positive for business services, while it is negative and statistically significant in the case of financial services. The latter outcome could be due to a Rybczynski type effect if financial services are used mostly in sectors that do not export to the U.S. View All Details about US Trade and Access to Trade Facilitating Services in Partner Countries: An Empirical Analysis Does a Lack of Health Insurance Elicit an Increase in the Rate of Voluntary Military Enlistment in the U.S.? The "Military Health Care Magnet Hypothesis," 1974-2007 Date: January 2010 This study addresses a question that has not been researched much previously, namely, does the unavailability of health insurance act as an incentive for persons to enlist in the military in the U.S.? This relationship is proffered as the Military Health Care Magnet Hypothesis. The present study endeavors to provide insight into this issue within a cost-benefit framework. The empirical analysis uses annual data for the years 1974 through 2007, the only years to date for which all of the variables in the model are dependable after the end of military conscription in the U.S. in 1973. Both OLS and 2SLS results demonstrate, among other things, that the greater the percentage of the civilian population without health insurance, the greater the rate of enlistment in the U.S. Army. View All Details about Does a Lack of Health Insurance Elicit an Increase in the Rate of Voluntary Military Enlistment in the U.S.? The "Military Health Care Magnet Hypothesis," 1974-2007 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
