Casey Wichman | School of Economics Skip to main content School of Economics Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About About the School Welcome to Economics News and Events Social Media Contact Us Accreditation Undergraduate Welcome Overview and Degrees B.S. in Economics B.S. in Global Economics and Modern Languages B.S. in Economics and International Affairs B.S./M.S. in Economics Minors Minor in Economics Minor in Microeconomics of Strategic Analysis (MESA) Minor in Energy Systems Summer Minor in Economics International Plan Research Option Advising Resources and FAQ Forms and Course Plans Clubs and Honor Societies SOE Scholarships Graduate Welcome Graduate Programs Overview M.S. in Economics B.S./M.S. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics Global Development Certificate People Faculty Office of the Chair Staff Ph.D. Students Research Faculty Research Publications Recent Grants Seminar Series Seminar Series Archive Student Research Health Economics & Analytics Lab (HEAL) Resources Student Resources Internships and Careers SOE Scholarships Faculty and Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources External Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Stay in Touch Board of Advisors Give to the SOE Mentor Jackets SOE Placements Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Breadcrumb Home People Casey Wichman Assistant Professor Member Of: School of Economics Email Address:wichman@gatech.edu Related Links: Personal WebsiteCurriculum Vitae Overview Dr. Casey Wichmanis an applied microeconomist working on issues at the intersection of environmental and public economics. His researchfocuses on how people interact with the natural and built environment, and what that behavior reveals about the value of environmental amenities. His research spans waterand energy demand, valuation of environmental resources and infrastructure, urban transportation, public goods provision, demand for outdoor recreation, andclimate change. Methodologically, herelies on theapplication of program evaluation techniques, often using large micro-data sets, to estimate causal effects of environmental policies on economic behavior. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Dr. Wichmanserved as the Research Director of the Energy and Environment Lab at the University of Chicago and as a Fellow at Resources for the Future, an environmental economics think-tank in Washington, DC. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Maryland in 2015, and his doctoral work earned outstanding doctoral dissertation awards from both the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists and the Association of Agricultural and Applied Economists. Education: Ph.D., University of Maryland M.S., University of Maryland M.S., North Carolina State University B.A., Ithaca College Research Fields: Applied Econometrics Environmental Economics Public Economics Selected Publications Journal Articles Climate Change and Recreation: Evidence from North American Cycling In: Environmental and Resource Economics [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2020 View All Details about Climate Change and Recreation: Evidence from North American Cycling Bicycle infrastructure and traffic congestion: Evidence from DC's Capital Bikeshare In: Journal of Environmental Economics and Management [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2018 View All Details about Bicycle infrastructure and traffic congestion: Evidence from DC's Capital Bikeshare Information provision and consumer behavior: A natural experiment in billing frequency In: Journal of Public Economics [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2017 View All Details about Information provision and consumer behavior: A natural experiment in billing frequency Conservation policies: Who responds to price and who responds to prescription? In: Journal of Environmental Economics and Management [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2016 View All Details about Conservation policies: Who responds to price and who responds to prescription? Perceived price in residential water demand: Evidence from a natural experiment In: Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization [Peer Reviewed] Date: 2014 View All Details about Perceived price in residential water demand: Evidence from a natural experiment Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram School of Economics Old C.E. Building 221 Bobby Dodd Way Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-385-1363Fax: 404-894-1809 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Faculty & Staff Resources Online Directory Techworks Human Resources Passport Quick Links Current Academic Calendar Career Center Registrar's Office Georgia Tech Visitor Information College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Directory Campus Offices Campus Map Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
