Lambert Ben Freund | Materials Science & Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Safety My.MatSE Give University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Search Menu Search About About MatSE at Illinois Explore MatSE Rankings Student Experiences Courses Visit the Campus Prospective Graduate Student Visits Employment Opportunities Admissions Ready to join a top ranked materials department in the nation? Start here Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Program Brochure How to Apply Metrics and Statistics (PDF) Scholarships and Financial Aid Careers Graduate Admissions Graduate Program Brochure How to Apply Deadlines Frequently Asked Questions Academics Have questions about the MatSE curriculum? Undergrad FAQ Graduate FAQ Academics Undergraduate Programs MatSE Minor Polymer Science and Engineering Minor Curriculum Biomaterials Curriculum Map Technical Electives Suggested Course Sequence Focus Areas Junior Labs Topical Lectures Advising Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Research Student Societies Student Outcomes Undergraduate Laboratories Graduate Programs Degree Requirements Ph.D. Degree Requirements M.S. Graduate Courses Course Guide: MS Course Guide: PhD Graduate Exams Graduate Exams: Qualification, Preliminary, and Final Fellowships and Awards Graduate Handbook Graduate Program Forms Advising Frequently Asked Questions Research RESEARCH MatSE faculty and students at the University of Illinois are making significant discoveries that will change the world, including self-healing materials such as polymer coatings that protect materials from the effects of environmental exposure. Research accomplishments Research Materials for Energy and the Environment Materials for Medicine Mechanical Properties and Materials for Extreme Conditions Nanoscale Science and Technology Facilities Safety News Prospective Undergraduates: Recorded information webinar available Read Full Story News | December 10, 2020 News MATERIAL 2020 Magazine MatSE Calendar Upcoming Seminars Outreach Alumni Questions about corporate, alumni, or hiring our students? Learn more Alumni Alumni Association Board Awards Alumni Awards - Loyalty Alumni Distinguished Merit Awards Alumni Young Alumnus Award Winners Engage Students Hiring MatSE Students Senior Design Projects Give Ways to Give People Outstanding MatSE People People All Faculty Department Faculty Adjuncts and Affiliates Lecturers Emeritus Faculty Staff Staff Listing Service Areas and Offices HomePeople Lambert Ben Freund Lambert Ben Freund Adjunct Professor (401) 252-9625 lbf@illinois.edu 302C Materials Science & Eng Bld Professional Highlights After earning Bachelors and Masters degrees at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1964 and 1965, respectively, Freund earned his Ph.D. degree from Northwestern University in 1967 in the program on Theoretical and Applied Mechanics. Thereafter, he served on the Faculty of the Division of Engineering at Brown University until 2010, including a term as Chair of the Engineering Executive Committee. During this period, he has also held visiting appointments at Harvard University, twice at Stanford University, University of California at Berkeley, twice at the California Institute of Technology and the University of Illinois. He is currently the H. L. Goddard University Professor (emeritus) at Brown University. Dr. Freund is the author or co-author of approximately 230 published articles on stress waves in solids, fracture mechanics, seismology, dislocation theory, mechanics of thin films, microstructure evolution in films, bio-adhesion and engineering education, plus monographs on Dynamic Fracture Mechanics (Cambridge University Press, 1990; paperback, 1998) and, with S. Suresh, on Thin Film Materials (Cambridge University Press, 2003; paperback, 2009. A Chinese language translation has also appeared (Science Press, Beijing, 2006). Research Statement His current research interests include: mechanics of biological materials (cell adhesion, molecular transport in cell walls, molecular bond kinetics, force generation by living cells) and mechanics of thin film materials (evolution of microstructure during semiconductor deposition, dislocation formation and growth, influence of strain on quantum mechanical transport in semiconductors). In professional service, Dr. Freund has served as Chair of the Executive Committee of the Applied Mechanics Division of ASME, as Editor of the ASME Journal of Applied Mechanics (1983-88), as Editor of the Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids (1992-2005), as Editor of Cambridge Monographs on Mathematics and Mechanics (1992-2004), and as President of the International Union of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics. Included among his principal honors are the George R Irwin Medal of ASTM, the William Prager Medal of SES, the Stephen P Timoshenko Medal of ASME and the Arpad Nadai Medal of ASME. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Courses Taught MSE 598 - Thin Film Materials Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Make a Gift Materials Science & Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 201 Materials Science and Engineering Building 1304 W. Green St. MC 246 Urbana, IL 61801, USA P: (217) 333-1441 | F: (217) 333-2736 General email: matse@illinois.edu Cookie Preferences Copyright 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
