Sean Sevey | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Sean Sevey Sean Sevey Lecturer,Management & Organizations Assistant Director, Career Advising,Undergraduate Academic and Career Development Center Phone 617-358-3161 Email ssevey@bu.edu Office 104 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Sean Sevey joined Questrom in October 2016 as the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Career Advising. He completed his B.S. in Psychology at the University of Connecticut and his M.Ed in Student Development in Higher Education at the University of Maine. Prior to joining the UDC, Sean served as a Premedical Academic Advisor here at Boston University and as an FY 101 instructor with the First Year Experience program. With a background in academic advising and first-year programming, Sean has an appreciation for the common challenges students face as undergraduates, and a genuine passion for helping students explore and gain a deeper understanding of their career interests and aspirations. When not working, Sean enjoys spending as much of his time as possible in the outdoors. A native of Maine, Sean is an avid hiker, rock climber, and skier who loves exploring the mountains of New England with his friends and family. BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
