Kristian Merenda | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Kristian Merenda Kristian Merenda Lecturer,Marketing Phone 646-625-6651 Email merenda@bu.edu Office 662 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Kristian Darigan Merenda isa Lecturer at Boston Universitys Questrom School of Business where she developed and now teaches a graduate level course in marketing social change for the marketing department. Ms.Merenda is an expert strategist who advises the worlds leading companies, product brands and NGOs in their efforts to develop, manage and communicate programs that deliver mutually beneficial solutions for business and society. Shehas pioneered approaches to creating, managing and measuring global corporate citizenship platforms, nonprofit signature programs and the next-generation cause branding efforts.In her career, she has raised hundreds of millions of dollars for good causes and has helped direct more than one billion dollars in charitable giving and volunteerism toward significant social programs. This work is featured in her seminal book: Breakthrough Nonprofit Branding, as well as in Corporate Citizenship in China: CSR Challenges in the Harmonious Society, which she co-wrote with Professor James Postfor The Journal of Corporate Citizenship. Ms. Merenda is also an adjunct professor at Harvard University Extention School. She has been a featured speaker for the American Marketing Association, Cause Marketing Forum, Harvard Business School, Duke and MIT, etc. in both professional and academic capacities. Herwork has been honored with more than 100 industry awards and featured in these books: President Bill Clintons Giving Philip Kotlers Social Marketing M. Cass Wheelers Youve Gotta Have Heart Jocelyn Daws Cause Marketing for Nonprofits PR News Top 100 Case Studies in PR Four of her most critically acclaimed efforts, American Heart Associations Go Red For Women, Microsoft Unlimited Potential, PNC Grow Up Great and Western Unions Our World Our Family, have been turned into Harvard Business School and United Nations case studies. Ms. Merenda hasserved on the executive review board for the Journal of Corporate Citizenship. She has served as an advisor in the creation of the PR News Nonprofit Awards and a judge for awards programs including those administered by PR News, The Publicity Club of New England and Net Impact. She has served as a member of the national boards of the American Heart Association, Boston University, HealthWorks! and changents.com. For more than a decade at Cone, LLC she helped develop the cause branding practice, which was then widely recognized as the best in the U.S. That work continues today on a global scale at through Edelman Business + Social Purpose. Merenda has also worked in related executive positions at GTECH Corporation, Firebrand LLC, and the YMCA. She received a BS in Marketing from Providence College, where she graduated Magna Cum Laude and completed her MBAat Boston University, where she graduated with Honors and a subsequent invitation to join the Questrom School of Businessfaculty. She resides in Canton, MA, with her husband, Justin, and sons, Liam and Nolan. Publications Merenda, K. (2011). "Breakthrough Nonprofit Branding", John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1 Merenda, K., Post, J. (2009). "Corporate Citizenship in China: CSR Challenges in the Harmonious Society", Merenda, K., Kotler, P., Lee, N. (2008). Marketing Highlight: Go Red for Women."Social Marketing: Improving the Quality of Life", Sage 400-410 Merenda, K., Daw, J. (2006). National Organizations: American Heart Association and First Book."Cause Marketing for Nonprofits", Wiley, 1 20-30 Awards and Honors 2020, More than 100 marketing, social impact and public relations Industry Awards, A Web Links Linked In Profilehttps://www.linkedin.com/in/kristiandarigan/ BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
