Misty Start | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Misty Start Misty Start Lecturer,Marketing Assistant Director, Undergraduate Career Advising,Undergraduate Academic and Career Development Center Phone 617-353-2835 Email startm@bu.edu Office 104S BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Misty Start joined Questrom in March 2019 as the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Career Advising. She is the former Director of Career Services and Experiential Learning at Franklin Pierce University where she provided leadership to the career advising team and strategic direction to the employer relations taskforce. As a first-generation college student, Misty appreciates and understands the distinctive challenges this population encounters as they navigate the hidden curriculum and develop career readiness competencies. She looks forward to supporting all students as they explore and cultivate their interests and aspirations and prepare for the dynamic and ever-changing world of work. Misty earned her Bachelor of Arts and Master of Education from Franklin Pierce University, and she is currently enrolled in the Doctor of Education in Higher Education Leadership program at Regis College. With a strong commitment to civic engagement, Misty is highly involved in international service and local mentoring organizations. In her leisure, she enjoys international travel, adventure-based recreation, and exploring the city of Boston with her puppies, Bay and Beacon. Questions? Email Misty at startm@bu.edu BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
