William Bachman | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/William Bachman William Bachman Lecturer,Management & Organizations Phone 617-358-6423 Email wbachman@bu.edu Office 522A BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Since 2012, following long and successful business and military careers, Bill Bachman has been a Lecturer in Organizational Behavior at the Questrom School of Business, Boston University. His entire working life has been devoted to the practical application of sound organizational behavior principles, and to coaching and mentoring young leaders. Based on his 35-year business career, Bill was appointed as the Executive in Residence at Wentworth Institute of Technology in 2013, where he worked with the faculty and students to provide a bridge to the business community and served as an advisor to various academic constituencies on the Wentworth campus. He has been a member of the adjunct faculty at George Washington Universitys Masters Degree program in law firm management and has taught management courses at Northeastern University and Babson College. Bill retired in 2013 from the position of Chief Operating Officer of Bingham Mccutchen LLP, a large, global law firm based in Boston, with 1000 lawyers and 16 offices. During his tenure at Bingham, he was part of the executive team responsible for the dramatic and profitable growth of the firm, including a succession of 10 mergers and acquisitions. This remarkable growth was profiled in a case study at Harvard Business School. Prior to joining Bingham, Bill successfully managed two other firms, culminating in over 35 years of law firm experience. In 1992, he was elected President of the Association of Legal Administrators, a 10,000-member association advancing management education in law firms. He was an author on management topics for the National Law Journal, American Lawyer and Of Counsel magazines, and has spoken at national seminars and conferences throughout his career. The firm was profiled in The Extraordinary Law Firm published in 1997. His last assignment prior to his retirement was as Executive Director for Partner Leadership Development, working with partners to enhance their leadership and management skills. Bill is a 2009 graduate of the AACSB business school teaching certificate course. Bill is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and holds a MS in Administration from the University of California, Irvine. Prior to his business career, he served on active duty with the U.S. Army and the National Guard, culminating in his promotion to Colonel in 1992. During his military career, he served in various assignments in the U.S. and overseas, including two combat tours in Vietnam. After receiving his masters degree, he taught leadership to cadets at West Point as an associate professor in the Department of Behavioral Sciences and Leadership for four years. His final year on the West Point faculty was spent designing and teaching an invitation-only seminar in advanced leadership for senior cadets. Bill is married with three children and five grandchildren. BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
