Susan Fournier | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Susan Fournier Susan Fournier Allen Questrom Professor and Dean SUSAN FOURNIER, ALLEN QUESTROM PROFESSOR AND DEAN Susan Fournier joined the faculty at Boston University Questrom School of Business in 2005 as an Associate Professor of Marketing and Deans Research Fellow. In the ensuing years, she advanced through the faculty ranks and was named Questrom Professor in Management in 2013. She has been an influential member of the community in her varied roles as an educator, researcher, and administrator. As Questroms first academic dean in over 40 years, Susan has the benefit of an inside perspective. She brings a wealth of personal experience in academia with over 24 years in the Undergrad, MBA and Executive classrooms of Harvard Business School, Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College, and Questrom. She is a celebrated professor who designed and delivered one of Questroms Top 10 MBA electives. She recently served as Senior Associate Dean of Faculty & Research, and was a prior Faculty Director of the Questrom MBA and Doctoral programs. She is an award-winning researcher with an in-depth knowledge of the research and publication enterprises, what it takes to produce research that matters, how to bring that knowledge into the classroom, and what it takes to translate academic research for the most significant impact on practicefacets critical to understand in the pursuit of creating value for the world. Susan is also the first woman dean at Questrom, marking a significant moment in our history. She is looking forward to a time when this descriptor is not considered a unique attribute. Of equal importance, Susan is a first-generation college student. This status gives her meaningful insight as Questrom continues to focus on diversity and inclusion in all aspects of the Schools life. HIGHER EDUCATION LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE In 2015, Susan was named Senior Associate Dean of Faculty & Research at Questrom. In that capacity, she led strategic efforts to hire 22 tenure-track research faculty and 18 non-tenure-track faculty. She advanced the value of interdisciplinary interfaces by promoting cross-departmental hiring, the development of new cross-disciplinary programs, and faculty engagement in interdisciplinary institutes at both the School and BU at large. An advocate for research that matters, Susan encourages synergies across teaching, research, and service that can advance business practice and the School. She is a strong supporter of faculty on the teaching track, where she introduced new leadership roles for lecturers and other non-tenure-track faculty, including a pilot experiment for the position of Associate Department Chair and a partnership model for Academic Program Directors that unites research and teaching faculty to yield benefits of complementarity and holistic value creation. With the support of a stellar staff and guidance of principles of equity and fairness, she developed operating systems to guide and streamline faculty actions processes at Questrom. RESEARCH, PUBLICATIONS & AWARDS Susan is a leading researcher and international voice in the field of branding and consumer behavior. She is credited with pioneering the brand relationships sub-field in marketing a thriving subject that explores the connections consumers form with branded products, services, and organizations. Her work spans the disciplines and methods of marketing, psychology, anthropology, and finance with a signature research style that delivers profound theoretical insights and applications for business practice. One of the most-awarded scholars in marketing, she received six best paper awards from major journals throughout her career. She is one of six researchers to be awarded the Long-Term Contribution Award in Consumer Research, granted to her in recognition of her work on brand relationships. She has been recognized twice for research with the most impact on theory and practice, receiving the Maynard Award from Journal of Marketing for her study on customer satisfaction and the Sheth Award from Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science for an empirical paper demonstrating the creation of shareholder value through branding. She also received the Emerald Publishing Citation of Excellence Award for the Top 50 articles in management. Susan is consistently ranked among the Top 10% of authors on SSRN in terms of all-time downloads, and claims over 20,000 Google Scholar citations with five published works garnering over 1,000 cites. Susan is the author of two acclaimed books on branding, over 40 best-selling Harvard Business School case studies, and is a frequent contributor to the Harvard Business Review blog. Her active projects explore the role of risk in branding theory and practice, management of person-brands such as Martha Stewart and Donald Trump, brand co-creation, brand relationship development and dissolution, and the lived experiences of brand flings, abusive marriages, and secret affairs. INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE & PREVIOUS ROLES Susans experience in academia is equaled by her extensive work in private industry. Prior to joining Questrom, she served in a variety of critical management positions including Marketing Research Manager at Polaroid Corporation, Account Manager at Yankelovich, Clancy Shulman, a leading marketing research firm, and Vice President and Associate Research Director at Young & Rubicam Advertising in New Yorkat the time, the largest private advertising agency in the world. She also served for twelve years on the Board of Advisors for the Harley Owners Group at Harley-Davidson Motor Company, and for seven years as a brand advisor to Irving Oil Corporation. Her brand relationship research ideas have been translated into products at GfK, one of the top five market research agencies in the world. She is Founder, President, and Chairman of the Institute for Brands & Brand Relationships, a non-profit international collaborative of academics and practitioners that advances research and dialogue on brand-related phenomena across disciplinary and method boundaries. To inform her teaching, case development, and research, she maintains a consulting practice with clients including IBM, Coca-Cola, Panera, Procter & Gamble, and the New York Philharmonic. Susan is a long-standing member of the editorial boards of the Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing, Journal of Relationship Marketing, Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, and Marketing Theory. She also serves as Senior Consulting Editor for the Journal of Brand Management and sits on the Senior Advisory Board of the Journal of Product and Brand Management and GfK Marketing Intelligence Review. She is active in the Association for Consumer Research, a professional community where she was nominated multiple times for the presidency and previously served as At-Large Director. In addition to her appointment at BU, she served on the faculty of Harvard Business School for ten years and was a visiting professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. Susan received her BSBA in Marketing from University of Massachusetts at Amherst, her MS in Marketing from Pennsylvania State University, and her PhD in Marketing from University of Florida. Phone 617-353-2773 Email fournism@bu.edu Office 629 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV SUSAN FOURNIER, ALLEN QUESTROM PROFESSOR AND DEAN Susan Fournier joined the faculty at Boston University Questrom School of Business in 2005 as an Associate Professor of Marketing and Deans Research Fellow. In the ensuing years, she advanced through the faculty ranks and was named Questrom Professor in Management in 2013. She has been an influential member of the community in her varied roles as an educator, researcher, and administrator. As Questroms first academic dean in over 40 years, Susan has the benefit of an inside perspective. She brings a wealth of personal experience in academia with over 24 years in the Undergrad, MBA and Executive classrooms of Harvard Business School, Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College, and Questrom. She is a celebrated professor who designed and delivered one of Questroms Top 10 MBA electives. She recently served as Senior Associate Dean of Faculty & Research, and was a prior Faculty Director of the Questrom MBA and Doctoral programs. She is an award-winning researcher with an in-depth knowledge of the research and publication enterprises, what it takes to produce research that matters, how to bring that knowledge into the classroom, and what it takes to translate academic research for the most significant impact on practicefacets critical to understand in the pursuit of creating value for the world. Susan is also the first woman dean at Questrom, marking a significant moment in our history. She is looking forward to a time when this descriptor is not considered a unique attribute. Of equal importance, Susan is a first-generation college student. This status gives her meaningful insight as Questrom continues to focus on diversity and inclusion in all aspects of the Schools life. HIGHER EDUCATION LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE In 2015, Susan was named Senior Associate Dean of Faculty & Research at Questrom. In that capacity, she led strategic efforts to hire 22 tenure-track research faculty and 18 non-tenure-track faculty. She advanced the value of interdisciplinary interfaces by promoting cross-departmental hiring, the development of new cross-disciplinary programs, and faculty engagement in interdisciplinary institutes at both the School and BU at large. An advocate for research that matters, Susan encourages synergies across teaching, research, and service that can advance business practice and the School. She is a strong supporter of faculty on the teaching track, where she introduced new leadership roles for lecturers and other non-tenure-track faculty, including a pilot experiment for the position of Associate Department Chair and a partnership model for Academic Program Directors that unites research and teaching faculty to yield benefits of complementarity and holistic value creation. With the support of a stellar staff and guidance of principles of equity and fairness, she developed operating systems to guide and streamline faculty actions processes at Questrom. RESEARCH, PUBLICATIONS & AWARDS Susan is a leading researcher and international voice in the field of branding and consumer behavior. She is credited with pioneering the brand relationships sub-field in marketing a thriving subject that explores the connections consumers form with branded products, services, and organizations. Her work spans the disciplines and methods of marketing, psychology, anthropology, and finance with a signature research style that delivers profound theoretical insights and applications for business practice. One of the most-awarded scholars in marketing, she received six best paper awards from major journals throughout her career. She is one of six researchers to be awarded the Long-Term Contribution Award in Consumer Research, granted to her in recognition of her work on brand relationships. She has been recognized twice for research with the most impact on theory and practice, receiving the Maynard Award from Journal of Marketing for her study on customer satisfaction and the Sheth Award from Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science for an empirical paper demonstrating the creation of shareholder value through branding. She also received the Emerald Publishing Citation of Excellence Award for the Top 50 articles in management. Susan is consistently ranked among the Top 10% of authors on SSRN in terms of all-time downloads, and claims over 20,000 Google Scholar citations with five published works garnering over 1,000 cites. Susan is the author of two acclaimed books on branding, over 40 best-selling Harvard Business School case studies, and is a frequent contributor to the Harvard Business Review blog. Her active projects explore the role of risk in branding theory and practice, management of person-brands such as Martha Stewart and Donald Trump, brand co-creation, brand relationship development and dissolution, and the lived experiences of brand flings, abusive marriages, and secret affairs. INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE & PREVIOUS ROLES Susans experience in academia is equaled by her extensive work in private industry. Prior to joining Questrom, she served in a variety of critical management positions including Marketing Research Manager at Polaroid Corporation, Account Manager at Yankelovich, Clancy Shulman, a leading marketing research firm, and Vice President and Associate Research Director at Young & Rubicam Advertising in New Yorkat the time, the largest private advertising agency in the world. She also served for twelve years on the Board of Advisors for the Harley Owners Group at Harley-Davidson Motor Company, and for seven years as a brand advisor to Irving Oil Corporation. Her brand relationship research ideas have been translated into products at GfK, one of the top five market research agencies in the world. She is Founder, President, and Chairman of the Institute for Brands & Brand Relationships, a non-profit international collaborative of academics and practitioners that advances research and dialogue on brand-related phenomena across disciplinary and method boundaries. To inform her teaching, case development, and research, she maintains a consulting practice with clients including IBM, Coca-Cola, Panera, Procter & Gamble, and the New York Philharmonic. Susan is a long-standing member of the editorial boards of the Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing, Journal of Relationship Marketing, Journal of Business-to-Business Marketing, and Marketing Theory. She also serves as Senior Consulting Editor for the Journal of Brand Management and sits on the Senior Advisory Board of the Journal of Product and Brand Management and GfK Marketing Intelligence Review. She is active in the Association for Consumer Research, a professional community where she was nominated multiple times for the presidency and previously served as At-Large Director. In addition to her appointment at BU, she served on the faculty of Harvard Business School for ten years and was a visiting professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. Susan received her BSBA in Marketing from University of Massachusetts at Amherst, her MS in Marketing from Pennsylvania State University, and her PhD in Marketing from University of Florida. Education PhD, University of Florida, 1994 MS, The Pennsylvania State University, 1983 BS, University of Massachusetts at Amherst, 1980 Publications Fournier, S., Alvarez, C. (2019). "How Brands Acquire Cultural Meaning", Journal of Consumer Psychology Fournier, S., Eckhardt, G. (2019). "Putting the Person Back in Person-Brands: Understanding and Managing the Two-Bodied Brand", Journal of Marketing Research Fournier, S., Merrinan, P. (2019). "How Gillette Created Their Own Brand Risk Event", Harvard Business Review Fournier, S., Srinivasan, S. (2018). "The Frontlines of Brand Risk: Interview with Patrick Marrinan", GfK Marketing Intelligence Review, 10 (1), 52-57 Fournier, S., Srinivasan, S. (2018). "Editorial: Brand Risk", GfK Marketing Intelligence Review, 10 (1), 3-3 Fournier, S., Srinivasan, S. (2018). "Branding and the Risk Management Imperative", GfK Marketing Intelligence Review, 10 (1), 10-17 Fournier, S., Eckhardt, G. (2018). "Managing the Risk in Human Brands", GfK Marketing Intelligence Review, 10 (1), 30-33 Hupp, O., Robbins, D., Fournier, S. (2018). "At-Risk Brand Relationships and Threats to the Bottom Line", GfK Marketing Intelligence Review, 10 (1), 58-63 Brick, D., Fournier, S. (2018). How Consumers' Attitudes toward Brands are Shaped. In T, Lowrey., M, Solomon. (Eds.), "The Routledge Companion to Consumer Behavior", Routledge/Taylor & Francis 227-242 Nisenholtz, M., Bickart, B., Fournier, S. (2017). "What Trump Understands About Using Social Media to Drive Attention", Harvard Business Review Bickart, B., Fournier, S., Nisenholtz, M. (2017). "What Trump Understands About Using Social Media to Drive Attention", Harvard Business Review Fournier, S. (2017). "Lessons Learned about Consumer-Brand Behavior from Hillary and Trump", Forbes Alvarez, C., Fournier, S. (2016). "Consumers relationships with brands", Current Opinion in Psychology, 10 129-135 Hsu, L., Fournier, S., Srinivasan, S. (2016). "Brand architecture strategy and firm value: how leveraging, separating, and distancing the corporate brand affects risk and returns", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 44 (2), 261-280 Sekhon, T., Bickart, B., Trudel, R., Fournier, S. (2015). Being a Likable Braggart: How Consumers Use Brand Mentions for Self-presentation on Social Media."Consumer Psychology in a Social Media World", M. E. Sharpe 23-39 Fournier, S. (2015). "Strong Brands Strong Relationships", Routledge Fournier, S., Breazeale, M., Avery, J. (2015). Contemplating the Futures of Branding."Strong Brands, Strong Relationships", Routledge Sekhon, T., Bickart, B., Trudel, R., Fournier, S. (2015). Being a Likable Braggart: How Consumers Use Brand Mentions for Self-Presentation on Social Media."Consumer Psychology in a Social Media World", M.E. Sharpe 23-39 Avery, J., Fournier, S., Wittenbraker, J. (2014). "Unlock the Mysteries of Your Customer Relationships Are you connecting with consumers the way they want you to?", Harvard Business Review, 92 (7-8), 72-81 Fournier, S. (2014). "Breaking Up is Hard to Do: The Ups and Downs of Divorcing Brands", GfK Marketing Intelligence Review, 6 (1), 28-33 Toder-Alon, A., Brunel, F., Fournier, S. (2014). "Word-of-mouth rhetorics in social media talk", Journal of Marketing Communications, 20 (1-2), 42-64 Fournier, S., Eckhardt, G., Bardhi, F. (2013). "Learning to Play in the New "Share Economy"", Harvard Business Review, 91 (7-8), 125-129 Fournier, S., Alvarez, C. (2013). "Relating badly to brands", Journal of Consumer Psychology, 23 (2), 253-264 Lawrence, B., Fournier, S., Brunel, F. (2013). "When Companies Don't Make the Ad: A Multimethod Inquiry Into the Differential Effectiveness of Consumer-Generated Advertising", Journal of Advertising, 42 (4), 292-307 Lawrence, B., Fournier, S., Brunel, F. (2012). "Online Word-of-Mouth in the Co-Creation and Dissemination of Consumer-Generated Ads", Boston U. School of Management Research Paper (2012) Fournier, S., Alvarez, C. (2012). "Brands as relationship partners: Warmth, competence, and in-between", Journal of Consumer Psychology, 22 (2), 177-185 Fournier, S. (2012). Exploring Relationship Analogues in the Brand Space."Consumer-Brand Relationships Theory and Practice", Routledge Fournier, S., Alvarez, C. (2012). Brand Flings: When Great Brand Relationships are Not Built to Last."Consumer-Brand Relationships Theory and Practice", Routledge Fournier, S., Avery, J. (2012). Fire Your Best Customers: How Smart Companies Destroy Relationships Using CRM."Consumer-Brand Relationships: Theory and Practice", Routledge Fournier, S., Breazeale, M. (2012). Where do We Go from Here? Charting Directions for Brand Relationships Research."Consumer-Brand Relationships Theory and Practice", Routledge Fournier, S. (2012). "Consumer-Brand Relationships", Routledge Fournier, S., Srinivasan, S. (2012). Branding and Firm Value."The Handbook of Marketing and Finance", Edward Elgar 155-203 Fournier, S., Avery, J. (2011). "The uninvited brand", Business Horizons, 54 (3), 193-207 Fournier, S., Avery, J. (2011). "Putting the 'Relationship' Back Into CRM", Mit Sloan Management Review, 52 (3), 63-72 Fournier, S. (2011). Managing Brands by Managing Brand Relationships."Perspectives on Brand Management", Tilde University Press 225-248 Brunel, F., Lawrence, B., Fournier, S. (2010). "Towards a Contingency Theory of Consumers' Engagement with CGAS", Advances in Consumer Research Fournier, S., Lee, L. (2009). "Getting Brand Communities Right", Harvard Business Review, 87 (4), 105-+ Fournier, S. (2009). Lessons Learned about Consumers' Relationships with their Brands."Handbook of Brand Relationships", Routledge 5-23 Brunel, F., Fournier, S. (2008). "Todos Somos Publicistas [We are all publicists now]", Expansion, 91 103-104 Fournier, S., Fehle, F., Madden, T., Shrider, D. (2008). "Brand Value and Asset Pricing", Quarterly Journal of Finance & Accounting, 47 (1), 59-82 Fournier, S., Chris, A., Miller, F. (2008). Brands and their Meaning Makers."Handbook of Consumer Psychology", Psychology Press Fournier, S., Vogels, P. (2008). When Brands Resonate."Handbook on Brand and Experience Management", Edward Elgar Pub 35-57 Madden, T., Fehle, F., Fournier, S. (2006). "Brands matter: An empirical demonstration of the creation of shareholder value through branding", Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 34 (2), 224-235 Aaker, J., Fournier, S., Brasel, S. (2004). "When Good Brands Do Bad", Journal of Consumer Research, 31 (1), 1-16 Fournier, S., Mick, D. (1999). "Rediscovering Satisfaction", Journal of Marketing, 63 (4), 5-5 Mick, D., Fournier, S. (1998). "Paradoxes of Technology: Consumer Cognizance, Emotions, and Coping Strategies", Journal of Consumer Research, 25 (2), 123-143 Fournier, S. (1998). "Consumers and Their Brands: Developing Relationship Theory in Consumer Research", Journal of Consumer Research, 24 Fournier, S., Yao, J. (1997). "Reviving brand loyalty: A reconceptualization within the framework of consumer-brand relationships", International Journal of Research in Marketing, 14 (5), 451-472 Research Presentations Bickart, B. , Sogut, C. , Brunel, F. , Fournier, S. The Effects of Live Word - of - Mouth Engagement on Experience Enjoyment, NYU 2017 Conference on Digital, Mobile Marketing, and Social Media Analytics, New York University Stern School of Business, New York, NY, 2017 Srinivasan, S. , Fournier, S. , Marrinan, P. Re-envisioning marketing for an age of risky business Awards and Honors 2013, Citations of Excellence Award, Emerald Publishing 2012, Nominated for Paul D. Converse Award (2012) honoring enduring and outstanding contributions to marketing scholarship, American Marketing Association 2011, Top Downloaded Articles in Management, Social Science Research Network (SSRN) 2011, Long-term Contribution Award, Association for Consumer Research and Sheth Foundation 2011, Reviewer Award, Journal of Consumer Research 2011, Who's Who Registry of Executive and Professional Women 2011, JCR Long-Term Contribution Award, Association for Consumer Research 2010, People's Choice Award, 1st Annual Consortium on Consumer-Brand Relationships 2007, Most cited articles in the top four Marketing journals adjusted for time on the market 2007, Best Article Award, Journal of Consumer Research 2007, Sheth Foundation Best Paper Award, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science 2007, JCR Best Article, Journal of Consumer Research 2006, Undergraduate Teaching Award, Undergraduate Student Council 2006, Harvard Business School Best-selling case award, Harvard Business School Publishing 2006, Harvard Business School Best-selling Case Award, Harvard Business School Publishing 2006, Excellence in Teaching Award, Boston University MBA Council 2005, Excellence in Teaching Award, MBA Council at the Tuck School of Dartmouth 2005, Reviewer Award, Journal of Consumer Research 2002, ACR Doctoral Consortium Faculty 2002, Reviewer Award, Journal of Consumer Research 2001, Best Article Award, Journal of Consumer Research 2001, MSI Young Scholars Award, Marketing Science Institute 2001, JCR Best Article, Journal of Consumer Research 1999, Harold H. Maynard Award for Most Significant Contribution to Theory and Thought, Journal of Marketing 1999, Shelby D. Hunt/Harold H. Maynard Award, American Marketing Association 1998, Honorable Mention Ferber Award, Journal of Consumer Research 1998, Greenhill Research Award, Harvard Business School 1998, Honorable Mention, Ferber Award for Best Published Dissertation, Journal of Consumer Research 1995, John A. Howard/AMA Doctoral Dissertation Award, American Marketing Association 1994, MSI Dissertation Award, Marketing Science Institute 1994, Honorable Mention, Dissertation Competition, American Marketing Association 1993, Dean's Fellowship Award, Harvard Business School 1992, Grant #4-813, Marketing Science Institute 1992, Fellow, American Marketing Association Doctoral Consortium, American Marketing Association 1983, Graduate Summa Cum Laude, Pennsylvania State University 1980, Graduate Summa Cum Laude, University of Massachusetts BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
