Gregory Sabin | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Gregory Sabin Gregory Sabin Senior Lecturer,Accounting Email gsabin@bu.edu Website http://www.bu.edu/experts/profiles/gregory-sabin/ Office 524A BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Greg Sabin is a Senior Lecturer at the Questrom School of Business where he teaches managerial accounting and corporate finance.He joined Boston University in 2016; he has taught at Harvard University, MIT, the Ohio State University and Michigan State University.Dr. Sabin holds a DBA in finance from Sacred Heart University. He also holds a Master of Business Administration degree and a Bachelor of Arts degree from Michigan State University. Prior to moving to academia, Dr. Sabin spent 12 years in industry, where he held senior management roles for multi-national companies including Ford Motor Company, Honeywell International, the Kellogg Company and multiple portfolio companies owned by the private equity firm KKR. His industry experience centers on international finance and operations. His research also focuses on international corporate investment. He has published papers for the Risk Institute and Harvard Business Publishing and presented his research internationally including industry conferences and invited presentations at universities in the United States, Europe and South America.Sabin has been a reviewer for many well-respected accounting and management journals. Dr. Sabin teaches classes and seminars at the undergraduate, MBA, executive and doctoral levels.Both his corporate finance and managerial accounting courses have consistently ranked among the highest-rated courses across the institutions where he has taught them.In 2011, Sabin was presented with the Outstanding Faculty Award given annually at Michigan State University to recognize outstanding teaching at the school.Additionally, Sabin has twice been named the Finance instructor of the year at Michigan State University. His personal interests include spending time with his wife and two children, watching college sports, studying foreign languages, and traveling. Education DBA, Sacred Heart University, 2019 MBA, Michigan State University, 1997 BA, Michigan State University, 1992 Publications Sabin, G. (2019). "Operating Leverage: An underutilized risk management tool", Journal of Cost Management, 33 (6), 37-44 Sabin, G. (2019). "Why Trump's volatile trade strategy won't work", The Hill Sabin, G. (2018). "Revisiting the Fdi-Foreign Exchange Debate: Is the Effect One of Wealth or Input Costs", Boston University Questrom School of Business Research Paper (3406900) Sabin, G. (2018). "Transparency vs. Comparability: The Impact of Accounting Regulation on Foreign Direct Investment", Gallani, S., Sabin, G., Cui, K. (2017). "J.C. Penney: Tough Choices for Allen Questrom", Harvard Business Publishing Sabin, G. (2017). "Managing Trade Risk In Uncertain Times", The Risk Institute Research Presentations Sabin, G. Discussion, American Accounting Association annual meeting, American Accounting Association, Washington, D.C., 2018 Sabin, G. American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, 2017 Awards and Honors 2019, James E. Freeman Leadership Development Award, Boston University 2018, Faculty Brother Award, Alpha Kappa Psi 2013, Teaching Excellence Award, Michigan State University - Department of Finance 2011, Michigan State University - Outstanding Faculty Award, Senior Class Council 2010, Teaching Excellence Award, Michigan State University - Department of Finance BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
