Barbara Bickart | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Barbara Bickart Barbara Bickart Senior Associate Dean, Graduate Programs Associate Professor,Marketing Barbara Bickart is an Associate Professor of Marketing and Senior Associate Dean for MBA Programs. Barbs research examines how the context of communication influences consumers inference and judgment processes. Her research was one of the first to demonstrate the persuasive impact of consumer-generated content on social media relative to marketer-generated content. Current projects explore how social media influencers strategically use disclosure of personal information in an online setting to create connections with their audience, how brand-related bragging on social media affects perceptions of both the communicator and the brand, and how engaging in social TV affects consumers enjoyment of the experience. She serves on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, where she was previously an Associate Editor. She has also served on the Journal of Consumer Research Policy Board, the Association for Consumer Research Board of Directors, and the Editorial Boards of the Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Marketing, and Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science. Barb is particularly interested in using digital technology to enhance management education. Over 39,000 people have enrolled in her Strategic Social Media Marketing MOOC, which is part of the BU Questrom Digital Product Management MicroMasters Program on edX. Barb holds a BA in Business and Psychology from Wittenberg University, an MS in Marketing from the University of Cincinnati, and a PhD in Business Administration from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She is a graduate of the HERS Leadership Institute. She served as the chair of the Questrom Marketing Department from 2013 to 2018. Prior to joining Questrom, Barb was a faculty member at the University of Florida, the Wharton School, and Rutgers University-Camden. Phone 617-353-3458 Email bickart@bu.edu Website https://www.barbbickart.com/ Office 663A BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Barbara Bickart is an Associate Professor of Marketing and Senior Associate Dean for MBA Programs. Barbs research examines how the context of communication influences consumers inference and judgment processes. Her research was one of the first to demonstrate the persuasive impact of consumer-generated content on social media relative to marketer-generated content. Current projects explore how social media influencers strategically use disclosure of personal information in an online setting to create connections with their audience, how brand-related bragging on social media affects perceptions of both the communicator and the brand, and how engaging in social TV affects consumers enjoyment of the experience. She serves on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, where she was previously an Associate Editor. She has also served on the Journal of Consumer Research Policy Board, the Association for Consumer Research Board of Directors, and the Editorial Boards of the Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Marketing, and Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science. Barb is particularly interested in using digital technology to enhance management education. Over 39,000 people have enrolled in her Strategic Social Media Marketing MOOC, which is part of the BU Questrom Digital Product Management MicroMasters Program on edX. Barb holds a BA in Business and Psychology from Wittenberg University, an MS in Marketing from the University of Cincinnati, and a PhD in Business Administration from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She is a graduate of the HERS Leadership Institute. She served as the chair of the Questrom Marketing Department from 2013 to 2018. Prior to joining Questrom, Barb was a faculty member at the University of Florida, the Wharton School, and Rutgers University-Camden. Education PhD, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, 1990 MS, University of Cincinnati, 1984 BA, Wittenberg University, 1982 Publications Lieshman, S., Brunel, F., Bickart, B. (2018). Dimensions of Voice in Social Media. In John, Branch., Marcus, Collins., Eldad, Sotnick-Yogev. (Eds.), "Contemporary Issues in Digital Marketing: New Paradigms, Perspectives, and Practices", Libri Publishing 145-160 Nisenholtz, M., Bickart, B., Fournier, S. (2017). "What Trump Understands About Using Social Media to Drive Attention", Harvard Business Review Bickart, B., Morrin, M., Ratneshwar, S. (2015). "Does it pay to beat around the bush? The case of the obfuscating salesperson", Journal of Consumer Psychology, 25 (4), 596-608 Sogut, C., Bickart, B., Brunel, F. (2015). Now or Later: Synchrony Effects on Electronic Word-of-Mouth Content."Consumer Psychology in a Social Media World", Routledge 53-68 Sekhon, T., Bickart, B., Trudel, R., Fournier, S. (2015). Being a Likable Braggart: How Consumers Use Brand Mentions for Self-presentation on Social Media."Consumer Psychology in a Social Media World", M. E. Sharpe 23-39 Sogut, C., Brunel, F., Bickart, B. (2015). Now or Later: Synchrony Effects on Electronic Word-of-Mouth Content."Consumer Psychology in a Social Media World", Routledge Publishers 53 Sekhon, T., Bickart, B., Trudel, R., Fournier, S. (2015). Being a Likable Braggart: How Consumers Use Brand Mentions for Self-Presentation on Social Media."Consumer Psychology in a Social Media World", M.E. Sharpe 23-39 Kim, S., Pai, S., Bickart, B., Brunel, F. (2015). How Social Media Influencers Build a Brand Following by Sharing Secrets."Strong Brands, Strong Relationships", Routledge 126-152 Bickart, B., Kim, S., Brunel, F., Pai, S. (2013). Can Your Business Have 1 Million Friends? Understanding and Using Blogs as One-to-One Mass Media."Organizations and Social Networking: Utilizing Social Media to Engage Consumers Utilizing Social Media to Engage Consumers", IGI Global 126-152 Bickart, B., Ruth, J. (2012). "Green Eco-seals And Advertising Persuasion", Journal of Advertising, 41 (4), 51-67 Schindler, R., Bickart, B. (2012). "Perceived helpfulness of online consumer reviews: The role of message content and style", Journal of Consumer Behaviour, 11 (3), 234-243 Brunel, F., Kim, S., Bickart, B. (2012). "Too Much Information: How Expertise Disclosures Affect the Persuasiveness of Online Consumer Reviews", Advances in Consumer Research Bickart, B., Phillips, J., Blair, J. (2006). "The effects of discussion and question wording on self and proxy reports of behavioral frequencies", Marketing Letters, 17 (3), 167-180 Buchanan, L., Simmons, C., Bickart, B. (1999). "Brand equity dilution: Retailer display and context brand effects", Journal of Marketing Research, 36 (3), 345-355 Simmons, C., Bickart, B., Lynch, J. (1993). "Capturing and Creating Public-Opinion in Survey-Research", Journal of Consumer Research, 20 (2), 316-329 Bickart, B. (1993). "Carryover and Backfire Effects in Marketing Research", Journal of Marketing Research, 30 (1), 52-62 Bickart, B., Blair, J., Menon, G., Sudman, S. (1990). "Cognitive Aspects of Proxy Reporting of Behavior", Advances in Consumer Research, Vol. 17 198-206 Bickart, B., Blair, J., Menon, G., Sudman, S. (1990). "Cognitive Aspects of Proxy Reporting of Behavior", Advances in Consumer Research, 17 198-206 Web Links Connect with me on LinkedInhttps://www.linkedin.com/pub/barbara-bickart/11/496/857 Follow me on Instagram (@ProfBickart)https://www.instagram.com/profbickart/ Follow me on ResearchGatehttps://www.researchgate.net/profile/Barbara_Bickart Follow me on Twitter (@babickart)https://twitter.com/babickart Sign up for Social Media Marketing MOOC on edXhttp://bit.ly/qstsmm-april BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
