Rebecca Karp | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Rebecca Karp Rebecca Karp Lecturer,Strategy and Innovation Email rakarp@bu.edu BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV I am a field researcher who studies how novel technologies gain acceptance, economic traction and market relevancy. I examine this topic from two vantage points. First, my research considers how firms learn, adapt and upend their strategies for developing and commercializing technological innovations when confronted with how users, intermediaries and broader market players interact with those innovations. Second, I explore how users and consumers leverage novel innovations in practice, and in doing so, reshape the market relevancy of the innovations with which they interact. To tackle this topic, I draw upon field research methodologies such as ethnographic, archival, experimental and case-based methods as they enable deep immersion into a given context to unearth not only how different actors engage with a new technology, but how the technology itself evolves over time. To date, I have studied how novel technologies gain market relevancy across different empirical contexts, in both entrepreneurial and incumbent firm settings, in the software industry and the field of digital health. Publications and Articles Under Review OMahony, S and R. Karp (2020) From Proprietary to Collective Governance: How Platform Participation Strategies Evolve Strategic Management Journal, forthcoming What Kind of Village Fosters Entrepreneurial New Venture Development (1st chapter of dissertation; with Siobhan OMahony) R&R at Administrative Science Quarterly Gaining Organizational Adoption: Discovering new uses for new innovations R&R at Academy of Management Journal Mapping a Dynamic Terrain: How novel technologies foster generalist and disrupt specialist knowledge work (with Paul Carlile) target: Organization Science Education MBA, Cornell University, 2008 Publications Karp, R., O'Mahony, S. (In Press). "From proprietary to collective governance: How do platform participation strategies evolve?", Strategic Management Journal Karp, R., Miller, A., O'Mahony, S.Governing for Growth in Scope: Cultivating a Dynamic Understanding of How Peer Production Collectives Evolve.."The Handbook of Peer Production.", Wiley Handbooks in Communication and Media Series, 1 Awards and Honors 2020, William H Newman Award, Academy of Management BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
