Amisha Miller | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Amisha Miller AM Amisha Miller Lecturer,Strategy and Innovation Email amisham@bu.edu Office 650A BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Amisha Miller is a third-year PhD candidate in Strategy and Innovation. She conducts field research to study how entrepreneurs and their early-stage firms interact with institutions, collectives, and communities that support entrepreneurs, to create valuable firms and products, and more inclusive institutions. In her first ten-month field study, she traced a cohort of twelve firms in an entrepreneurial program and explained how certain types of mutually constructed advice prompt more varied experimentation, which opens an entrepreneurs aperture to take on strategy scope expansion. The paper provides insight into entrepreneurial training and strategy literatures, and policy suggestions to entrepreneurs and training programs on how entrepreneurs can effectively use advice. Previously Amisha worked in varied entrepreneurship research and policy in roles in funding organizations, with governments, in nonprofits, and as an entrepreneur. She has an MSc in Population and Development from the London School of Economics and a BA in History from University of Warwick. Education MSc, London School of Economics, 2009 Publications Miller, A., O'Mahony, S., Cohen, S."Learning from External Advice: How do Entrepreneurs Decide to Pursue a Broad or Focused Strategy?", Karp, R., Miller, A., O'Mahony, S.Governing for Growth in Scope: Cultivating a Dynamic Understanding of How Peer Production Collectives Evolve.."The Handbook of Peer Production.", Wiley Handbooks in Communication and Media Series, 1 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
