Peter Fox-Penner | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Peter Fox-Penner Peter Fox-Penner Professor of the Practice,Markets, Public Policy, and Law Director, Institute for Sustainable Energy Phone 617-353-4298 Email pfoxp@bu.edu BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Peter Fox-Penner is a Professor of Practice in the Questrom School of Business and the Director of Boston Universitys Institute for Sustainable Energy. He also co-directs the Impact Measurement and Allocation Program (IMAP) on sustainable finance, a joint project with the Susilo Institute for Ethics in the Global Economy . In addition, he is a Partner and Chief Strategy Officer of Energy Impact Partners, one of the largest dedicated clean energy private equity fund groups in the world and an academic advisor to The Brattle Group. He is on the global leadership council of the World Resources Institute and on the advisory boards of Mobility Impact Partners, the National Regulatory Research Institutes Training Initiative, and PEACE. He is also affiliated with the Energy Futures Initiative. His research and writing interests are in the areas of electric power strategy, regulation, and governance; energy and climate policy; sustainable finance; and the relationships between public and private economic activity, including corporate social responsibility. He is the author of Smart Power: Climate Change, the Smart Grid, and the Future of Electric Utilities,, a book widely credited with foreseeing the future transformation of the power industry now used and cited all over the world, as well as its sequel Power After Carbon (Harvard University Press, 2020). The work of the BU Institute for Sustainable Energy and Fox-Penners projects through the Institute can be viewed here. Fox-Penner has led a career that includes leadership in academia, government, and the private sector. From 1996 through 2015, Fox-Penner was a Principal specializing in energy and regulated industry matters at The Brattle Group. During his time there, Peter was on the firms Executive Committee, directed the Washington Office, and then became the firms longest-serving Chairman. During his tenure at the firm he helped The Brattle Group grow from a small regional consulting boutique into a globally-recognized brand with offices all over the world. He also played an integral role in designing a unique corporate governance framework by which the firm has become an intergenerational, self-governed, privately-held firm. During this period his work was quoted as authoritative in a Supreme Court Decision and he participated extensively in litigation involving Enron and the California electricity crisis. From 1994-1996 Peter was Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary at the U.S. Department of Energys Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy unit (EERE) and a Senior Advisor in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Among other duties during this period, he led policy and budget formulation at EERE, implemented the largest part of the first official U.S. Climate Change Action Plan and the path breaking Partnership for a New Generation Vehicle, represented the U.S. government in Californias power deregulation and parallel federal efforts, and defended the federal government against the unsuccessful 1994 shutdown. Prior to 1994 Fox-Penner was a Vice-President at Charles River Associates, where his work centered on electric utility policy and regulation, and a research engineer at the Illinois Governors Office of Consumer Services, one of the original utility consumer advocates first established in the U.S., and a researcher at the University of Illinois Energy Research Group (ERG). ERG was one of the original three interdisciplinary energy research centers in the United States and helped contribute to the first formal national energy policy adopted by the U.S., President Nixons Project Independence. Since 1996, Fox-Penner has also been actively engaged in outside business and civic activities. He has previously been on the board of, or been an Advisor to, The Solar Foundation, the Center for National Progress, the Brookings Institution Energy Program, the United Nations Foundations, the Energy Foundation, the Global Energy Group, Gridpoint, EOS Energy Storage, and other groups. In 1977, Fox-Penner co-founded one of the original anti-nuclear-power U.S. groups, the Prairie Alliance, and in 2000 he co-founded Environment 2004, an environmental political group that was subsequently merged into the League of Conservation Voters. He has also been a policy advisor to numerous presidential campaigns. Fox-Penners outside interests include music and sound recording. He is a rank amateur R&B and jazz drummer and the founder of a series of sound recording studios that have become Pogo Records. Publications Fox-Penner, P. (In Press). "Testimony before Boston City Council on Carbon-Free Boston", Boston City Council Fox-Penner, P. (In Press). "Hewletts 2017 Climate Strategy Refresh Memo to the Hewlett Foundation", The Cynthia & George Mitchell Foundation Fox-Penner, P. (In Press). "Prepared Statement Before the California Public Utilities Commission En Bank Hearing in Retail Choice", California Public Utilities Commission Fox-penner, P. (2020). "Power After Carbon", Harvard Univ Pr Fox-Penner, P. (2020). "COVID-19 will slow the global shift to renewable energy but cant stop it", The Conversation Fox-Penner, P. (2020). "Power After Carbon Building a Clean, Resilient Grid", Fox-Penner, P., Cassandras, C., Kelly, H. (2019). "Integrating Electric Mobility Systems with the Grid Infrastructure", Ren, Z. (2019). "Melting the Ice Lessons from China and the West in the Transition to Electric Vehicles: The Critical Role of Public Charging Infrastructure", Independently Published Hatchadorian, R., Best, R., Wholey, K., Calven, A., Levine, E., Tepfer, S., Swett, B., Walsh, M., Pollack, A., Castigliego, J., Perez, T., Cleveland, C. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Buildings Technical Report", Institute for Sustainable Energy Castigliego, J., Walsh, M., Pollack, A., Cleveland, C. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Waste Technical Report", Institute for Sustainable Energy Walsh, M., Fox-Penner, P., Zheng, K., Pollack, A., Cleveland, C. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Energy Technical Report", Institute for Sustainable Energy Maron, A., Zheng, K., Walsh, M., Fox-Penner, P., Cleveland, C. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Offsets Technical Report", Institute for Sustainable Energy Walsh, M., Kinney, P., Levy, J., Tallon, L., Skipper, N., Russell, A., Castigliego, J., Zheng, K., Cleveland, C. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Technical Summary", Institute for Sustainable Energy Cleveland, C., Stanton, L., Woods, B., Martin, A., Fortune, D., Walsh, M., Castigliego, J., Perez, T., Galante, E. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Social Equity Report", Institute for Sustainable Energy Hatch, J., Lam, T., Fox-Penner, P. (2019). "Assessing the Potential for US Utility Green Bonds", Porter, C., Milkovits, M., Chang, J., Boone, S., Walsh, M., Castigliego, J., Cleveland, C. (2019). "Carbon Free Boston: Transportation Technical Report", Institute for Sustainable Energy Fox-Penner, P., Gorman, W., Hatch, J. (2018). "Spread of self-driving cars could cause more pollution unless the electric grid transforms radically", The Conversation Fox-Penner, P., Hatch, J., Cleveland, J., Silano, M. (2018). "Cities and Climate Change: Strategic Options for Giving", Fox-Penner, P., Gorman, W., Hatch, J. (2018). "Long-term U.S transportation electricity use considering the effect of autonomous-vehicles: Estimates & policy observations", Energy Policy, 122 203-213 Fox-Penner, P. (2018). The Implications of Vehicle Electrification and Autonomy for Global Decarbonization. In Varun, Sivaram. (Eds.), "Digital Decarbonization: Promoting Digital Innovations to Advance Clean Energy Systems", Council on Foreign Relations 55-55 Fox-Penner, P. (2017). "Why solar microgrids are not a cure-all for Puerto Ricos power woes", Salon Fox-Penner, P. (2017). "An Admiring but Cautionary Open Letter to Frances Political Establishment", Huffington Post Fox-Penner, P., Kates-Garnick, B., Mueller, B. (2017). "Think Local, Not Global!", Commonwealth Magazine Consultant, G., Broehm, R., Ledgerwood, S., Fox-Penner, P., Taylor, . (2015). "Market Power and Market Manipulation in Energy Markets From the California Crisis to the Present", Zarakas, W., Sergici, S., Bishop, H., Zahniser-Word, J., Fox-Penner, P. (2014). "Utility Investments in Resiliency: Balancing Benefits with Cost in an Uncertain Environment", The Electricity Journal, 27 (5), 31-41 Fox-Penner, P. (2014). "Resilient and Sustainable Infrastructure for Urban Energy Systems", The Solutions Journal 48-54 Fox-Penner, P. (2013). "The Future of US Energy Utilities, AD", The Oxford Energy Forum 18-18 Fox-Penner, P. (2011). "Mission, Structure, and Governance in Future Electric Markets: Some Observations", The Oregon Law Review Fox-Penner, P. (2002). "The Regulation of Competition in Wholesale Electric Power Markets", Energy Law Journal, 23 (2), 281-348 Fox-Penner, P. (2001). "Easing Gridlock on the Grid, , : Electricity Planning and Siting Compacts", Fox-Penner, P., Basheda, G. (2001). "A short honeymoon for utility deregulation", ISSUES IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, 17 (3), 51-56 Fox-Penner, P. (1997). "Dear Mr. President ... : An open letter on electricity restructuring", Palmer, K., Simpson, D., Toman, M., Fox-Penner, P. (1993). "Electricity fuel contracting: Relationships with coal and gas suppliers", Cleveland, C., et al., ."Carbon Free Boston: Summary Report", Green Ribbon Commission Research Presentations Fox-Penner, P. Mobility and Infrastructure Introduction, HUCE Event, Boston University Questrom School of Business, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. , Gorman, W. , Hatch, J. Long-Term Transportation Electricity Use Considering Autonomy: Estimates and Policy Observations, General Motors, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. The State Agenda in Climate and Energy Policy, National Association of State Energy Officials, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. EV Public Infrastructure and Policies: Selected Results from Melting the ICE and Carbon-Free Boston, Bloomberg New Energy Future of Mobility Summit, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. Electric Vehicle Charging in China and the U.S., BNEF Mobility Forum, San Francisco, CA, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. Decarbonizing the Worlds Energy System: The Five+ Engineering Miracles Needed, Boston University Questrom School of Business, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. Panelist, Engineering EXCOM Retreat, Boston, MA, 2019 Fox-Penner, P. Bloomberg Workshop on Coal Plant Retirements, Bloomberg Philantrophies, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. Carbon-Free Boston Presents Research to Green Ribbon Commission, Green Ribbon Commission/Barr Foundation, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. How the Shifting Utility Paradigm Affects the Value of Energy Efficiency in a Distributed Energy Future, NAESCO Conference, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. Designing Climate Solutions for Post Carbon Cities, Security and Sustainability Forum, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. The Future of Energy Tech - Industry Roundtable, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. CleanTech Capital Day Panel: Storage and Batteries, Clean Energy Ministerial 2018 Malm/Copenhagen, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. GEIDCO/Boston University Collaboration, BU Institute for Sustainable Energy, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. Green Ribbon Commission and ISE Webinar on the CFB Initiative, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. New Horizons in Clean Electric Power, Boston University DC Alumni Event, Boston Universtity, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. MIT Energy Financing and Innovative Business Models, MIT, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. Opportunities for Digital Innovations in Mobility and Smart Cities, Promoting Digital Innovations to Enable Clean Energy Systems, Council on Foreign Relations, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. Utility of the Future, Solar Power Northeast, SEIA and SEPA, 2018 Fox-Penner, P. Burstein Scholar in Residence Lecture, Temple Israel, 477 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02215, 2017 Fox-Penner, P. Electric Systems Digitalization: Real World Examples from the EIP Portfolio, MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Annual Conference, MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy, 2017 Fox-Penner, P. The California Energy Crisis and it's Legacy, QST PL 882 - Public Policy Analysis Professor Michael Salinger, Questrom HAR 316, 2017 Fox-Penner, P. The Changing Utility Industry, Chinese Business School (CBEAD), Questrom Executive Education, Questrom, HAR 418, 2017 Fox-Penner, P. Technology and Regulatory Systems in Power Industry, Harvard History of Science HST 231, Professor Naomi Oreskes, Harvard University, Cambridge MA, 2017 Fox-Penner, P. The Changing Utility Industry, Boston University Questrom School of Business, Boston, MA, 2017 Fox-Penner, P. Executive Panel Session: Customer, Grid or Data, Oracle Industry Connect, Orlando, FL, 2017 Awards and Honors 2018, Invited to moderate invitiation only energy conference for Saudi Crown Prince, MIT 2018, Personally briefed Bill Gates, bcG3 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
