Temidayo Adepoju | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Temidayo Adepoju Temidayo Adepoju Lecturer,Operations and Technology Management Email tadepoju@bu.edu Office 650 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Temidayo Adepoju is a Doctoral Candidate in Operations and Technology Management at Questrom School of Business, Boston University. Her research interest lies in the intersection of healthcare and operations management. Temidayo uses her empirical training to answer research questions that investigate the quality and efficiency of care delivery processes. Prior to joining the doctoral program, Temidayo worked as a Software Developer in Nigeria and IT Risk Consultant in the US where she was responsible for developing various software applications and ensuring the security of business and financial controls of various IT systems in different industries. Temidayo holds an MBA from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst with a specialization in Operations and Information Systems; an M.Sc in Information Systems from the University of Manchester, England with a specialization in Organization and Management, and a B.Sc in Computer Science from University of Lagos, Nigeria. Research Interests: Healthcare Operations, Empirical Operations, Service Operations, Behavioral Operations, Health IT Working Papers: Hospital Boarding Crises: The Impact of Urgent versus Prevention Responses on Length of Stay We examine the impact of two responses on patient length of stay (LOS): (i) an urgent response [code yellow (CY)], which is a Massachusetts mandated policy to reduce boarding crises whenever patients in the ED experience long wait times, and (ii) a prevention response [pre-discharge orders(PDO)], which refers to a health IT coordination tool to facilitate patient discharge. Using three years of inpatient data, we find that patients who receive a preventive response will have a shorter LOS compared to patients who do not. Conversely, the LOS increases for patients who experience an urgent response during their hospital stay versus patients who do not. Furthermore, the urgent response crowds out the prevention response. The likelihood of physicians using a prevention response decreases when the hospital is in a state of boarding crises. Thus, we find that the state-mandated urgent response creates a state of chaos that deters physicians from investing in actions that could prevent future boarding crises. Our study provides empirical evidence that demonstrates how the pressure to produce results today impedes workers efforts to improve future performance. This paper is under a second-round review at Management Science. The Impact of a Dedicated Queueing Organization on Observation Length of Stay (LOS) We investigate the effectiveness of a dedicated observation unit on observation patient LOS. Dedicated observation units can either operate treating only typical observation patients using the inclusion criteria or expand using exclusion criteria to treat complex patients to improve patient flow. The expansion leads to an increase in demand and patient mix complexity that comes at a cost. Using 13 years of observation level data from the Emergency department (ED), observation unit, and inpatient unit, we find that dedicated observation units operated with the exclusion criteria are associated with an increase in average LOS compared to when observation units operated using the inclusion criteria. Despite the cost of expanding with the exclusion criteria, further analysis shows that observation patients have a shorter LOS when treated in the dedicated observation unit with the exclusion criteria compared to when treated off-service in the inpatient unit as a result of unavailable beds in the observation unit (i.e. on-service). Our results suggest that the improved performance stems from coordination mechanisms that are enabled by volume, from the increase in demand, and task uncertainty, from the addition of complex patients. We find that hospital managers may be able to manage expansion costs and gain efficiency through coordination mechanisms, such as frequent touchpoints with specialists and colocation with nurses and case managers. The Impact of Dedicated Capacity on Overall Hospital Flow and Cost of Care We explore the impact of a dedicated observation unit operated with the exclusion criteria on overall hospital performance. The exclusion criteria allow a dedicated observation unit to admit complex patients who would otherwise have been treated on the hospital floor and whose severity is not life-threatening. This study moves beyond the conventional focus of the effectiveness of dedicated capacity on patient outcomes, and instead examines potential positive spillover effects of the presence of dedicated capacity in hospitals. Using 13 years of observation level data from the Emergency department (ED) and inpatient unit, we expect the analysis to show that the presence of a dedicated observation unit in a hospital is associated with a decrease in average inpatient LOS, the likelihood of 30-day readmission and ED boarding time in comparison to when there was no dedicated observation unit. We anticipate the result of the positive spillover effect being driven by the dedicated observation units ability to absorb the complex patients that would have added to the patient variability in the inpatient unit. For example, by reducing the unnecessary hospitalizations of complex patients in the inpatient unit, the inpatient unit can benefit from improved efficiency based on the increase in the volume of severely sick patients with life-threatening conditions. Education MBA, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 2015 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
