Jayakanth Srinivasan | Questrom School of Business Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Questrom School of Business Creating Value for the World Hire Questrom Give Insights@Questrom Search Menu Search About Admissions Degree Programs Faculty & Research Executive Education Careers Student Life Alumni Parents & Families News Calendar Contact Us BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Search Search for: Faculty Directory Home/Faculty & Research/Faculty Directory/Jayakanth Srinivasan Jayakanth Srinivasan Research Associate Professor,Information Systems Phone 617-353-4291 Email jksrini@bu.edu Office IHSIP-305E BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Download CV Jayakanth JK Srinivasan is a Research Associate Professor at Boston Universitys Questrom School of Business, and a Fellow at the Institute for Health Systems Innovation and Policy. Prior to joining BU, he led a research team at MIT working with the Army over a five-year period to iteratively transform behavioral health services for Soldiers and their families. He has also served as a faculty member at the School of Innovation, Design and Engineering at MDH in Sweden. Prof. Srinivasan is an excellent source of information for systems analysis and health system transformation, with a focus on system redesign, modeling and analytics, performance management, and change implementation. His current research projects focus on: understanding how leader sensemaking and sensegiving can improve individual and organizational health outcomes; and enabling precision medicine in behavioral healthcare settings. He is the recipient of the Commanders Award for Public Service, the Army Outstanding Civilian Service Award, and is a senior member of the ACM. Publications Srinivasan, J., Ivany, C., Sarmiento, D., Woodson, J. (2017). "How the U.S. Army Redesigned Its Mental Health System", Harvard Business Review Srinivasan, J., Brown, M., Ivany, C., Woodson, J. (2016). "How the US Army Personalized Its Mental Healthcare", Harvard Business Review Nightingale, D., Srinivasan, J. (2011). "Beyond the Lean Revolution: Achieving Successful and Sustainable Enterprise Transformation", American Management Association Srinivasan, J., DiBenigno, J., Carroll, J."Transformation of the US Army Behavioral Health System of Care: An Organizational Analysis Using the "Three Lenses"", Journal of Organizational Behavior Education Research Presentations Srinivasan, J. Applying Analytics to Construct Episodes of Mental Health Care, INFORMS, INFORMS Annual Meeting, INFORMS, Phoenix, 2018 Srinivasan, J. Building the Army's Learning Mental Health System of Care, Lahey Clinic, Right Care Against All Odds, Lahey Clinic, Burlington, Massachusetts, 2017 Srinivasan, J. From Organized Anarchy to a System of Care, Boston Medical Center, BMC Quality Hub, Boston Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, 2017 BOSTON UNIVERSITY Questrom School of Business Rafik B. Hariri Building 595 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-9720 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn
