Faculty & Research: Together We Will | UW College of Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW College of Engineering K-12 Programs Diversity & AccessMyCoE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us Mission, Facts, and Stats Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Diversity Bias Incident, Bias Concern, Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Resources Engineering Buildings Employment Visit the College Contact Us K-12 Programs Departments Departments At a Glance WILLIAM E. BOEING DEPARTMENT OF Aeronautics & Astronautics Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Civil & Environmental Engineering PAUL G. ALLEN SCHOOL OF Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Human Centered Design & Engineering Industrial & Systems Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty Finder Faculty Honors New Faculty Members Strategic Research Areas Research Centers & Institutes Cluster Hiring Initiative News & Events News & Events All News Our Stories In the Media The Trend Alumni Newsletter Washington Engineer e-news Event Calendar Engineering Lecture Series Social Media Admission Admission Why UW Engineering? Freshman Admission Planning Ahead for High School Students Running Start Students Transfer Admission Math Academy Department Admission Graduate Admission Professional Master's & Certificate Programs International Student Resources Visit Us Students Students Current Students Engineering Undeclared Students Tuition & Scholarships Leadership Programs Diversity Programs Student Support Clubs & Competitions Study Abroad Career Center @ Engineering Student Policies Prof. & Continuing Ed. Student Guide Industry & Alumni Industry & Alumni Industry Partnerships Alumni Connections Give to Engineering Additional Links Additional Links K-12 Programs Diversity & Access MyCoE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE K-12 Programs Diversity & AccessMyCoE GIVE Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty & Research: Together We Will By encouraging collaboration across disciplines and tackling the tough engineering problems of our time, the College of Engineering is experiencing explosive growthnot only in funding but in patents, inventions, and the advancement of basic science. Working side-by-side with faculty and industry, our students are learning how to predict earthquakes, build fuel cells, and save lives through prevention and medicine. Together, we're asking big questions and finding that the answers are changing our perceptions of what's possible. Use the links at right to look up faculty, areas of research, and research opportunities and facilities. Strategic Research Areas Research at the UW College of Engineering is focused on five global challenges where we can achieve greatest impact through interdisciplinary collaborations that inspire innovation and leadership. More Faculty Finder Find faculty in all 10 UW Engineering departments by searching on their name, research areas, or departments. More Faculty Profile Gary Hsieh, an assistant professor in Human Centered Design & Engineering (HCDE), studies incentives, motivation, and the tools that make our lives more efficient. Hes researched mindfulness, nutrition, teen moms, activism, volunteering, video games, and advertising. Hsieh says his research is about everyday life. Read Hsieh's full profile in The Whole U See also UW Engineering Strategic Research Plan Sponsor Research at the College of Engineering UW Office of Research Employment at UW Engineering Faculty & ResearchFaculty Finder Faculty Honors New Faculty Members Strategic Research Areas Research Centers & Institutes Cluster Hiring Initiative Information for Faculty Looking for information, forms, and resources for faculty and staff within the UW College of Engineering? Go to MyCoE. UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us MyCoE Log In Privacy Terms 2020 UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
