Stuart B. Adler | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW Chemical Engineering MyChemE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? About the Department Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Snapshot Faculty Directory Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Ph.D. Student Handbook Master's Student Handbook Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees UW ChemE ACES WChE @ UW Diversity Resources Alumni Alumni Stay Connected Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE GIVE People PeopleFaculty DirectoryFaculty Finder - betaStuart B. Adler Stuart B. Adler Associate Professor Chemical Engineering stuadler@uw.edu (206) 543-2131 BNS 355 Adler Research Group Biography Stu Adler and his research group seek to better understand the electrocatalytic properties of solids, and how these properties relate to electrochemical processes and devices. The broad motivation for his work is energy sustainability - electrocatalysts enable key technologies for energy conversion and storage, including fuel cells, solid-state electrolysis and photochemical devices, batteries, and gas separation membranes. His group employs cutting-edge transient and operando electrochemical diagnostics, in conjunction with detailed physical models, to better understand local properties and dynamics of electrocatalysts.Dr. Adler received his PhD in Chemical Engineering in 1993 from the University of California, Berkeley. After a postdoc in the Department of Materials at Imperial College, he served as a staff scientist at Ceramatec, Inc. before rejoining academia in 1999. Professor Adlers awards include a NSF-NATO postdoctoral Fellowship (1993), NSF Career Award (2001), Charles W. Tobias Young Investigator Award of the Electrochemical Society (2004), and UW Junior Faculty Innovator Award (2007). Education Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, 1993 M.S. in Chemical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, 1989 B.S.E. in Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, 1987 Previous appointments Assistant Professor, Case Western Reserve University, 1999-2001 Senior Research Engineer, Ceramatec/Air Products, 1994-1998 NSF-NATO Postdoctoral Fellow, Imperial College London, 1993-1994 Research Statement The Solid State Electrochemistry Lab (SSEL) seeks a deeper understanding of electrochemical reactions used in energy conversion and storage. Our work is part of a broader effort by our society to achieve energy and environmental sustainability. A key factor limiting this sustainability is our (current) inability to store energy from sustainable but intermittent sources such as wind and solar power at relevant scale. Electrochemical reactions provide a unique solution to this problem by allowing electricity to be converted to fuels, and back again, or by storing electrical energy within reversibly transformable materials. Relevant technologies informing and benefitting from our work include fuel cells, electrolysis devices, batteries, and solar energy conversion. A common theme of our research is the use of transient voltage-current response (impedance and nonlinear impedance) to probe factors limiting electrode performance or causing electrode degradation. We often couple these measurements with operando techniques to probe more directly (or locally) what is happening in or around the electrode materials during a reaction. By measuring and modeling these responses as a function of frequency, we gain deeper insights about the physics and chemistry of the reaction, and which factors limit performance. More recently we have been extending these methods to entire systems (such as stack of fuel cells in a commercial fuel cell system), and the use of data science and machine learning to interpret measured responses in terms of physics, chemistry, and operational parameters. Honors & awards Junior Faculty Innovator Award, UW College of Engineering, 2007 Charles W. Tobias Young Investigator Award of the Electrochemical Society, 2004 NSF CAREER Award, Division of Materials Research, 2001-2006 News Flipped Classroom Where lectures take place at home, and homework is done in class Read More Just add sunlight, air, and water An award-winning capstone design's simple formula for generating medical oxygen in underserved areas Read More Students pitch health innovations Three teams of ChemE undergraduateand graduate students competed at the 2019 Hollomon Health Innovation Challenge,... Read More Adler: Journal of Appl. Physics cover A new technique co-developed by Prof. Stu Adler may provide cues on how to design better batteries. The paper was... Read More ChemE research areas Energy Systems Research interests Electrochemical Engineering Kinetic, Transport, and Thermodynamic Properties of Solids Advanced Measurement and Modeling of Solid State Electrochemical Systems Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
