Payman Arabshahi | UW Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Give to ECE Quick Links Menu News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Science Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Science Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation Payman Arabshahi HomeUW Department of Electrical & Computer EngineeringFaculty Associate Professor; ECE Industry Liaison Computing and Networking 450 ECE Campus Box 352500 University of Washington Seattle, WA 98195 Phone: 206-221-6990 Email: paymana@ece.uw.edu External Web Page: faculty.washington.edu/paymana Biography Payman Arabshahi is Associate Professor, and Associate Chair for Advancement at the University of Washingtons Department Electrical & Computer Engineering; Director of Innovation ofLearning Programs at the UWs Office of Innovation (CoMotion); and a principal research scientist with the UW Applied Physics Laboratory. From 1994-1996 he served on the faculty of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at the University of Alabama in Huntsville. From 1997-2006 he was on the senior technical staff of NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), in the Communications Architectures and Research Section, working on Earth orbit and deep space communication networks and protocols, and design of planetary exploration missions. While at JPL he also served as affiliate graduate faculty at the Department of Electrical Engineering at Caltech, where he taught the three-course graduate sequence on digital communications. Arabshahi has been the co-founder of, or advisor to, a number of technology startups. His interests are in entrepreneurship education, innovation readiness, underwater and space communications, wireless networks, data mining and search, and signal processing. Awards and Honors Three EE Faculty Honored with UW Innovation Awards Recent Publications N. Parrish, L. Tracy, S. Roy, W.L.J. Fox, and P. Arabshahi, "System design considerations for undersea networks: link and multiple access protocols," IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 26, no. 9, December 2008.B.M. Howe, Y. Chao, P. Arabshahi, S. Roy, T. McGinnis, A. Gray, "A smart sensor web for ocean observation: fixed and mobile platforms, integrated acoustics, satellites, and predictive modeling," IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Earth Observations and Remote Sensing, vol. PP, no. 99, pp. 1-15, July 25, 2010.S.H. Fouladi, M. Hajiramezanali, H. Amindavar, J.A. Ritcey, and P. Arabshahi, "Denoising based on multivariate stochastic volatility modeling of multiwavelet coefficients," IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 61, no. 22, Nov. 2013.R. Roshandel, P. Arabshahi, R. Poovendran, "LIDAR: A layered intrusion detection and remediation framework for smartphones," Proc. 4th International ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on Architecting Critical Systems (Federated with CompArch 2013), Vancouver, Canada, 17-21 June 2013.X. Xie, S. Ashrafi, S. Roy, P. Arabshahi, "Puget Sound Underwater Networking Testbed," Proc. IEEE Oceans 2014, St. John's, Canada, Sept. 14-19, 2014.Y. Ying, S. Roy, P. Arabshahi, "A Modified CSMA/CA Protocol for OFDM Underwater Networks: Cross Layer Design," Proc. 10th ACM Workshop on Underwater Networks, Washington D.C., Oct. 22-24, 2015. Connect with ECE: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn University of Washington Be boundless Accessibility Contact Us Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms UW Electrical & Computer Engineering | Seattle, WA
