Wang, Ting | The University of New Orleans Skip to main content menumenu Hamburger Aux Menu Maps & Directions For Current Students For Faculty & Staff For Alumni For Parents Employment Opportunities Give Now Privateer Sports Hamburger Menu Future Students Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Office of Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Request Information Tuition and Fees Scholarships and Awards Financial Aid Academics Academics Home Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs General Education Professional and Continuing Education (PaCE) Online Degree Programs Service Learning Study Abroad Colleges Business Administration Engineering Liberal Arts, Education & Human Development College of Sciences School of the Arts Hotel, Restaurant & Tourism School of Naval Architecture Interdisciplinary Studies The Graduate School About UNO About UNO At A Glance Office of the President Administrative Offices Mission & Vision History University Advancement Alumni Research Research Home Faculty & Staff Research Student Research Collaborate with UNO Office of Research Student Life Student Life Home Campus Safety On Campus Housing Campus Dining Recreation & Fitness Student Health Campus Hangouts Get Involved university of new orleans profile faculty wang, ting Mechanical Engineering Objectives and Outcomes Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Facilities News Faculty Contact Us Faculty Profile Ting Wang, Ph.D. Jack and Reba Matthey Endowed Chair, Director of Energy Conversion and Conservation Center (ECCC) Contact 504-280-7183 twang@uno.edu eccc.uno.edu Professor Ting Wang is currently the Director of Energy Conversion and Conservation Center (ECCC) and Matthey Endowed Chair for Energy Research of University of New Orleans (UNO). He is also a Professor of Department of Mechanical Engineering. Prior to UNO, he taught 15 years at Clemson University in South Carolina, USA. He has been involved in energy conservation and power generation in full spectrum for the past 38 years. He is an experimentalist with significant computational fluid dynamics (CFD) experience. He specializes in gas turbine power generation, turbomachinery, coal/biomass gasification, poly-generation, integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC), Micro Combined Cooling, Heating , and Power (Micro-CCHP), energy efficiency, and general thermal-flow engineering. He has conducted both fundamental and applied research with funding from U.S. governmental agencies, such as Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR), Office of Naval Research (ONR), U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), USAID, National Science Foundation (NSF) and various industries, including General Electric, Siemens, 3M, Entergy, Dynergy, Power Engineering, Louisiana Steam Equipment, and Rain CII Carbon. He has published over 320 research papers and reports and was the recipient of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) George Westinghouse Silver Medal for his contributions to power engineering in general. He was the Past Chair of two ASME committees (Coal, Biomass, and Alternative Fuels Committee and Gas Turbine Heat Transfer Committee). He has also served on the editorial board of three International Journals. He was appointed by former Louisiana Governor "Mike"Foster as a member of the Louisiana Comprehensive Energy Policy Advisory Commission. He is an ASME Fellow. Research Interests: Gas turbine systems; Transitional and turbulent boundary layer; Fluid mechanics; Heat transfer; Curved flow; Electronic equipment cooling; Bi-diffusion natural convection; Energy conservation; Alternative fuels; Integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) power plant Current Research Mist/steam cooling Jet impingement cooling Separated-flow transition Combustor flow aerodynamics Heat transfer enhancement on micro-structured surfaces Biomass gasification combustion Integrated gasification combined cycles Areas of Expertise: Thermal-Fluid Science and Energy Education: Ph.D., University of Minnesota MS, State University of New York at Buffalo 2000 Lakeshore Drive New Orleans, LA 70148 888-514-4275 Additional Contacts Learn Admission Information Programs of Study Scholarships and Awards Tuition and Fees Experience International Center Our Campus Student Life Connect All Social University Calendar Request Info Apply Visit Give Copyright 2020 University of New Orleans Emergency Preparedness Member of the UL System Non-Discrimination Statement SACSCOC Accreditation Title IX
