Department Head | Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering | University of Illinois at Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. Skip to the content of this page, the main menu, the secondary menu, the site search form, the site home page. UIC Logo Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Search the site Toggle Menu Search UIC Logo Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Main Menu Undergraduate Expand Undergraduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Accreditation Civil Engineering Major Courses Minors Internships and Jobs Student Groups Student Resources Graduate Expand Graduate menu Admitted Students Admissions Courses MS Programs PhD Programs PhD Dissertations Post-Graduation Outcomes Student Resources Research Expand Research menu High-Bay Structures Laboratory Labs Research Areas Student Research Opportunities Seminars Faculty and Staff Expand Faculty and Staff menu Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions News Events Eyebrow menu Give Alumni College of Engineering Home UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search View Menu Down arrow icon Breadcrumbs Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering Faculty and Staff Department Head Department Head bio Abolfazl (Kouros) Mohammadian is a professor of transportation systems and head of the Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering. He received his PhD from University of Toronto in 2002 and has been at UIC since 2003. Mohammadians research covers various areas of transportation systems including travel behavior analysis, travel surveys, computational analysis of transportation systems, freight and logistics modeling, and agent-based microsimulation models. He has authored or co-authored more than 300 scholarly publications in scientific journals, conference proceedings, book chapters, and reports. He is an editor of the Journal of Transportation Lettersand has served as committee chair of the Traveler Behavior and Values committee (ADB10) of the National Academies Transportation Research Board. He chaired two Transportation Research Board subcommittees: Behavioral Processes (ADB10-4) and New Technologies in Travel Surveys (ABJ40-4). Mohammadian has received the Ryuichi Kitamura Paper Award, Fred Burggraf Award, and Charley V. Wootan Award, recognizing his contributions to transportation research. Hehas advised 22 PhD studentsand has received the Harold Simon Teaching Award, Teaching Recognition Program Award, and the Edmund M. Burke Outstanding Faculty Award,along with the UIC College of Engineerings faculty teaching, advising, and research awards. Mohammadian served as the vice chair of the University of Illinois Senate Conference and as vice chair of UICs Senate for several years. Contact Abolfazl Mohammadian Professor and Department Head Phone: (312) 996-9840 Email: kouros@uic.edu View Profile Faculty and Staff Back to main content Department Head Core Faculty Courtesy and Dual Appointments Emeritus Faculty Faculty Awards Professional Advisory Council Staff Open Positions UIC Logo College of Engineering Quicklinks Graduate Resources Undergraduate Resources Room Reservation Form ABET Accreditation Contact Department of Civil, Materials, and Environmental Engineering 2095 Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3428 Fax: (312) 996-2426 cme@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook LinkedIn Twitter Instagram UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 2.43.1 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
