Faculty Employment Opportunities|Faculty and Staff Resources|School of Engineering|Vanderbilt University Skip to main content About Us Our Mission and Values Dean's Office Departmentsand Programs Invited Lectures E-Week Alumni Fact Sheet Board of Visitors Dean's Philanthropic Priorities Buildings Map Faculty Openings Academics Overview Undergraduate Graduate Degree and Nontraditional Programs Undergrad Admissions Design Day Study Abroad Academic Services Research Experiences for Teachers Research Research Research Videos Strategic Research Areas Inclusion Engineering Expert Sources Centers, Institutes, Groups, and Labs Undergraduate Research Industrial Partners International Initiative News Latest News Research News Expert Sources Fact Sheet E-Newsletter Publications Podcasts and Videos News Archive Evacuation Plans Admissions Admissions Overview About Engineering Undergraduate Graduate Boot Camps Financial Aid Degrees Life in Music City Resources Academic Services Incoming Students Undergraduates Graduate Students Faculty/Staff Resources Alumni Parents New Building Info Contact Us Contact Us Faculty AdminStaff Post Docs Dean's Office Giving Departments Centers, Institutes & Groups Make a Gift Home Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty Employment Opportunities Faculty Employment Opportunities --updated December 4, 2020 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (21+) | Mechanical Engineering (1) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE TENURE-TRACK FACULTY POSITIONS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) is launching a multi-year faculty recruitment and hiring process in Computer Science for 20 tenure-track positions at the Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor levels over and above normal hiring patterns, with preference at early-career appointments. This year, the initiative will support at least six new faculty positions. Destination-CS is part of the universitys recently launched Destination Vanderbilt, a $100 million university excellence initiative to recruit new faculty. Over the next two to four years, the university will leverage the investment to recruit approximately 60 faculty who are leaders and rising stars in their fields. All hires who are part of this initiative are over and above the normal faculty hiring rate at the university. We seek exceptional candidates in broadly defined areas of computer science that enhance our research strengths in areas that align with the following investment and growth priorities of the Vanderbilt University School of Engineering: Autonomous and Intelligent Human-AI-Machine Systems and Urban Environments Cybersecurity and Resilience Computing and AI for Health, Medicine, and Surgery Design of Next Generation Systems, Structures, Materials, and Manufacturing Our priorities are designed to ensure the strongest positive impact on computer science and cross-disciplinary areas at all five academic departments in the School of Engineering and other colleges and schools across campus. The hiring initiative builds on these strengths and aspires to propel the Vanderbilt computer science program to one of the leading academic programs nationally and beyond. Successful candidates are expected to teach at the undergraduate and graduate levels and to develop and grow vigorous programs of externally funded research. Ranked #14 nationally, Vanderbilt University is a private, internationally recognized research university located on 330 park-like acres 1.5 miles from downtown Nashville, Tennessee. Its 10 distinct schools share a single cohesive campus that nurtures interdisciplinary activities. The university has a student body of over 13,500 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students, including 36% minority students and over 1,100 international students from 84 countries.The School of Engineering is on a strong upward trajectory in national and international stature and prominence, and has built infrastructure to support a significant expansion in faculty size. In the rankings of graduate engineering programs by U.S. News & World Report, the school ranks in the top 20 private, research-extensive engineering schools. Five-year average T/Tk faculty funding in the EECS department is above $800k per year. All junior faculty members hired during the past 15 years have received prestigious young investigator awards, such as NSF CAREER and DARPA CSSG. With a metro population of approximately 1.9 million people, Nashville has been named one of the 15 best U.S. cities for work and family by Fortune, was ranked as the #1 most popular U.S. city for corporate relocations by Expansion Management, and was named by Forbes as one of the 25 cities most likely to have the country's highest job growth over the coming five years. The top major industries by employment include trade, transportation and utilities; education and health services; professional and business services; government; and leisure and hospitality. Other industries include manufacturing, financial activities, construction, and information. Long known as a hub for health care and music, Nashville is a technology center with a considerable pool of health care, AI, and defense-related jobs available. In recent years, the city has experienced an influx of major office openings by some of the largest global tech companies and prime Silicon Valley startups. Vanderbilt University has a strong institutional commitment to recruiting and retaining an academically and culturally diverse community of faculty. Minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, and members of other underrepresented groups, in particular, are encouraged to apply. Vanderbilt is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. Applications should be submitted on-line at: http://apply.interfolio.com/80624. For more information, please visit our web site: http://vu.edu/destination-cs . Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis beginning December 15, 2020 with interviews beginning January 1, 2021.For full consideration, application materials must be received by January 31, 2021. TEACHING FACULTY POSITION IN COMPUTER SCIENCE The Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) at Vanderbilt University invites applicants for a professor of the practice or lecturer of computer science position with a target start date of Fall 2021. Primary responsibilities are to teach three core EECS courses ranging from introductory to upper-division per semester. Ideal qualifications include a Ph.D. degree in computer science, computer engineering, or a related discipline and prior teaching experience in these programs. This is a term appointment, eligible for renewal, contingent on performance. The computer science and computer engineering programs at Vanderbilt are growing, are committed to teaching and research excellence, and include a number of professors of the practice and lecturers who are fully integrated into EECS faculty operations. Applications should include a full CV, statement of teaching experience and interests, as well as names and email addresses of three references. Applications should be submitted on-line at:https://apply.interfolio.com/69022. For questions regarding the position, send an email to:robert.tairas@vanderbilt.edu. Review of applications will begin immediately, and applications will be accepted until the position is filled. Mechanical Engineering Tenure-Track with Focus on Surgical or Interventional Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at Vanderbilt University invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position to begin in the fall of 2021. Applicants must possess a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering or closely related discipline. Candidates are sought with research interests in engineering novel surgical and interventional devices and processes. This includes, but not limited to, novel medical devices, sensors, actuators, user interfaces, robotic systems, and other engineering techniques that can broadly impact surgical or interventional procedures. The ideal candidate that will complement and enhance the departments strengths in robotics in general, and in surgical and interventional robotics in particular, and will benefit from collaborations in the Vanderbilt Institute for Surgery and Engineering. The School of Engineering strives for an active culturally and academically diverse faculty of the highest caliber, skilled in scholarship and teaching. The Department of Mechanical Engineering has 16 tenured/tenure-track faculty members with reputations for excellence in research fields including nanoengineering, rehabilitation engineering, and medical robotics, with an annual research expenditure of $7.2 million. The department encourages interdisciplinary research and the faculty is affiliated with 8 cross-campus research centers. The School of Engineering is immediately adjacent to the Vanderbilt University Medical Center, which greatly facilitates collaboration between the schools of engineering and medicine. Successful candidates are expected to (1) teach at the undergraduate and graduate levels, (2) establish vigorous research programs with extramural funds, and (3) contribute to synergistic efforts within the School of Engineering.Applications consisting of a cover letter, a complete curriculum vitae, statements of teaching and research interests, and the addresses of at least three references (include email address) should be submitted on-line at http://apply.interfolio.com/81666. Submission of applications by January 15 will ensure early consideration by the committee, while applications received through January 31 or later will be considered if the position is not yet filled. Ranked #14 nationally, Vanderbilt University is a private, internationally recognized research university located on 330 park-like acres 1.5 miles from downtown Nashville, Tennessee. Its 10 distinct schools share a single cohesive campus that nurtures interdisciplinary activities. The university has a student body of over 13,500 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students, including 36% minority students and over 1,100 international students from 84 countries.The School of Engineering is on a strong upward trajectory in national and international stature and prominence, and has built infrastructure to support a significant expansion in faculty size. In the rankings of graduate engineering programs byU.S. News & World Report, the school ranks in the top 20 private, research-extensive engineering schools. With a metro population of approximately 1.9 million people, Nashville has been named one of the 15 best U.S. cities for work and family byFortune, was ranked as the #1 most popular U.S. city for corporate relocations byExpansion Management, and was named byForbesas one of the 25 cities most likely to have the country's highest job growth over the coming five years. The top major industries by employment include trade, transportation and utilities; education and health services; professional and business services; government; and leisure and hospitality. Other industries include manufacturing, financial activities, construction, and information. Long known as a hub for health care and music, Nashville is a technology center with a considerable pool of health care, AI, and defense-related jobs available. In recent years, the city has experienced an influx of major office openings by some of the largest global tech companies and prime Silicon Valley startups. Vanderbilt University has a strong institutional commitment to recruiting and retaining an academically and culturally diverse community of faculty. Minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, and members of other underrepresented groups, in particular, are encouraged to apply. Vanderbilt is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. ------------------- Departments & Programs BME ChBE CEE EECS GE ME Recent News Engineering schools three new endowed fellowships support researchers, faculty recruitment Michael Goldfarb elected Fellow of National Academy of Inventors Clark Foundation establishes Vanderbilt engineering school endowment Researchers develop unique process for producing light-matter mixture Vanderbilt-developed exosuit spotlighted at annual D.C. showcase MORE Connect with Vanderbilt Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Flickr Tumblr RSS Feed Wechat Creating Solutions Cyber-physical Systems Biomedical Imaging & Biophotonics Rehabilitation Engineering Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Risk, Reliability and Resilience Big Data Science and Engineering Regenerative Medicine Surgery and Engineering Energy and Natural Resources Resources Meet our Faculty Explore Degree Programs Explore Solutions Vanderbilt University All rights reserved. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Division of Communications) Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt, Vanderbilt University, V Oak Leaf Design, Star V Design and Anchor Down are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University
