Engineering schools three new endowed fellowships support researchers, faculty recruitment | News | School of Engineering | Vanderbilt University Skip to main content About Us Our Mission and Values Dean's Office Departmentsand Programs Invited Lectures E-Week Alumni Fact Sheet Board of Visitors Dean's Philanthropic Priorities Buildings Map Faculty Openings Academics Overview Undergraduate Graduate Degree and Nontraditional Programs Undergrad Admissions Design Day Study Abroad Academic Services Research Experiences for Teachers Research Research Research Videos Strategic Research Areas Inclusion Engineering Expert Sources Centers, Institutes, Groups, and Labs Undergraduate Research Industrial Partners International Initiative News Latest News Research News Expert Sources Fact Sheet E-Newsletter Publications Podcasts and Videos News Archive Evacuation Plans Admissions Admissions Overview About Engineering Undergraduate Graduate Boot Camps Financial Aid Degrees Life in Music City Resources Academic Services Incoming Students Undergraduates Graduate Students Faculty/Staff Resources Alumni Parents New Building Info Contact Us Contact Us Faculty AdminStaff Post Docs Dean's Office Giving Departments Centers, Institutes & Groups Make a Gift Engineering schools three new endowed fellowships support researchers, faculty recruitment SHARELINES TweetThree new endowed fellowships will support Vanderbilt School of Engineering researchers, aid recruitment Through a Faculty Fellowship Challenge, donors have established endowments that will support rising faculty talent in the School of Engineering. Sally Baker Hopkins, BE78, and David L. Hopkins, Caroline and Jack P. Williams Jr., BE86, and Laura J. and William W. Hoy Jr., BA64, have provided support for faculty fellowships that will receive a match from the Chancellors Faculty Challenge, which was established in 2018 to help recruit and retain the teachers and scholars who will become the next legendary members of the Vanderbilt University faculty. Sally Hopkins, Jack Williamsand Alanna Patsiokas are members of the School of Engineering Board of Visitors.Board members serve as advisers to the Dean and the schools senior staff. These fellowships represent the ongoing leadership of our Board of Visitors and build on the prior generosity of the Hopkins, Williams, and Hoy families. These board members provide not only valuable insight and advice, but a legacy of philanthropy and active involvement in supporting the schools future,said Philippe M. Fauchet, Bruce and Bridgitt Evans Dean of Engineering. Sally Hopkins The Sally and Dave Hopkins Faculty Fellowship will support a faculty member who conducts research in collaboration with the Vanderbilt University Medical Center or within the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering or the Department of Biomedical Engineering. Sally Hopkins earned her bachelors degree in chemical engineering. After earning her MBA from Tulane University in 1984, she joined Shell. In 2012, after a 34-year career at Shell, Hopkins retired as a general manager in global manufacturing. She was inducted into the School of Engineering Academy of Distinguished Alumni in 2019. The Hopkins reside in Houston, Texas. Jack Williams The Jack and Caroline Williams Deans Faculty Fellowship will support an engineering faculty member. Jack Williams earned his bachelors degree in electrical engineering. Except for a three-year stint as president of XTO Energy Inc, Jack Williams has spent his entire career at Exxon Mobil, starting in 1987 as a drilling engineerat Exxon. In 2014, he was elected senior vice president of Exxon Mobil Corporation. Williams is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Williams was inducted into the School of Engineering Academy of Distinguished Alumni in 2018. The Williams reside in Fort Worth, Texas. Thomas Hoy Alanna Patsiokas The Hoy Family Faculty Fellowship is being established by Laura and William Winston Hoy Jr., of Surfside, South Carolina, in honor of their son, Thomas Nelson Hoy, BE05, and daughter-in-law, Alanna Marie Patsiokas, BE06, MD10, as well as Alanna Patsiokas service on the School of Engineerings Board of Visitors. Alanna Patsiokas and Thomas Hoy earned their bachelors degrees in biomedical engineering. Dr. Patsiokas works in Nashville and specializes in pediatrics. Hoy is director of Clinical Data Management at HCA Healthcare. Contact: Brenda Ellis, 615 343-6314 brenda.ellis@vanderbilt.edu Posted on Tuesday, December 8, 2020 in Alanna Patsiokas, Board of Visitors, Chancellor's Faculty Challenge, endowed fellowship, engineering fellowship, Jack Williams, Sally Hopkins, Thomas Hoy,Biomedical Engineering, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Home Features, Mechanical Engineering, News, News Sidebar NewsNews Home Research News VUSE Media Spotlight E-Newsletter Archives Subscribe to VUSE News Print Publications News Archive Previous VUSE Magazines Fact Sheet Podcasts and Videos Contact Us Recent News Engineering schools three new endowed fellowships support researchers, faculty recruitment Michael Goldfarb elected Fellow of National Academy of Inventors Clark Foundation establishes Vanderbilt engineering school endowment Researchers develop unique process for producing light-matter mixture Vanderbilt-developed exosuit spotlighted at annual D.C. showcase Connect with Vanderbilt Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Flickr Tumblr RSS Feed Wechat Creating Solutions Cyber-physical Systems Biomedical Imaging & Biophotonics Rehabilitation Engineering Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Risk, Reliability and Resilience Big Data Science and Engineering Regenerative Medicine Surgery and Engineering Energy and Natural Resources Resources Meet our Faculty Explore Degree Programs Explore Solutions Vanderbilt University All rights reserved. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Division of Communications) Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. Accessibility information. Vanderbilt, Vanderbilt University, V Oak Leaf Design, Star V Design and Anchor Down are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University
