Xiao Ma | NYU Tandon School of Engineering Skip to Main Content NYU Tandon Logo Undergraduate Graduate Online Departments Applied Physics Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Urban Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Finance and Risk Engineering Mathematics Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering NYU Tandon Online Technology, Culture and Society Technology Management and Innovation Degrees & Programs Bachelor of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Certificate Programs NYU Tandon Bridge Industry Partner Programs K12 STEM Support & Services Undergraduate Services Graduate Services Financial Aid & Fellowships Records & Registration Online Learning Services Faculty Innovations (FITL) Areas of Excellence Research Centers & Institutes Labs & Groups Student Research Entrepreneurship MakerSpace Student Affairs & Activities Career Services Support & Resources International Students Alumni Giving Partnerships Overview Explore NYU Tandon Fast Facts Year in Review Strategic Plan Leadership History Community Diversity & Inclusion Brooklyn Visit News & Events News Events Social Media Podcast Media Inquiries Search NYU Tandon Fulltext search Common Questions This is a sample question Admissions + Academics + Research & Innovation + Student Life + Engage + About + Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online Academics Departments Applied Physics Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Urban Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Finance and Risk Engineering Mathematics Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering NYU Tandon Online Technology, Culture and Society Technology Management and Innovation Degrees & Programs Bachelor of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Certificate Programs NYU Tandon Bridge Industry Partner Programs K12 STEM Support & Services Undergraduate Services Graduate Services Financial Aid & Fellowships Records & Registration Online Learning Services Faculty Innovations (FITL) Research & Innovation Areas of Excellence Research Centers & Institutes Labs & Groups Student Research Entrepreneurship MakerSpace Student Life Student Affairs & Activities Career Services Support & Resources International Students Engage Alumni Giving Partnerships About Overview Explore NYU Tandon Fast Facts Year in Review Strategic Plan Leadership History Community Diversity & Inclusion Brooklyn Visit News & Events News Events Social Media Podcast Media Inquiries The latest guidance on Fall 2020classes at NYU Tandon. | Visit NYU Returns for additional information. Faculty Xiao Ma Industry Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Dr. Xiao Ma is an Industry Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering at NYU Tandon School of Engineering. His research focuses on mechanobiology, cellular morphogenesis, computational biology, cellular mechanics, molecular biophysics, cancer biology, smart biointerface design/characterization, and application of micro/nanofabrication technology to manipulate biological system from both molecular and cellular levels. Research Interests: Mechanobiology Cellular Morphogenesis Computational Biology Molecular/Cellular Mechanics Machine Learning Biosensor Design Surface Characterization Nanotechnology Education Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. Bachelor of Science, Mechanical Engineering,2004 Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. Master of Science, Mechanical Engineering,2007 Iowa State University, Ames, IA. Doctor of Philosophy, Mechanical Engineering,2013 Experience New York University, Brooklyn, NY. Industry Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, July 2019 to present University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. Postdoctoral Research Fellow of Cell Biology/Bioinformatics,Oct 2013 to July 2019 Publications Journal Articles Xiao Ma, Agnivo Gosai, and Pranav Shrotriya. Resolving electrical stimulus triggered molecular binding and force modulation upon thrombin-aptamer biointerface. Journal of colloid and interface science. 2020, 559: 1-12 Xiao Ma, Agnivo Gosai, Ganesh Balasubramanian, and Pranav Shrotriya. Force Spectroscopy of the Thrombin- Aptamer Interaction: Comparison between AFM Experiments and Molecular Dynamics Simulations. Applied Surface Science. 2019, 475: 462-472 Xiao Ma, Onur Dagliyan, Klaus M. Hahn, and Gaudenz Danuser. Profiling Cellular Morphodynamics by Spatiotemporal Spectrum Decomposition. PLoS Computational Biology. 2018, 14(8), e1006321 Xiao Ma, Agnivo Gosai, Ganesh Balasubramanian, and Pranav Shrotriya. Aptamer based Electrostatic-stimuli Responsive Surfaces for On-demand Binding/Unbinding of a Specific Ligand. Journal of Materials Chemistry B. 2017, 5(20): 3675-3585 Agnivo Gosai, Xiao Ma, Ganesh Balasubramanian, and Pranav Shrotriya. Electrical Stimulus Controlled Binding/Unbinding of Human Thrombin-Aptamer Complex. Scientific Reports. 2016, 6: 1-12 Xiao Ma, and Pranav Shrotriya. Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Conformational Transition and Frictional Performance Modulation of Densely Packed Self-Assembled Monolayers Based on Electrostatic Stimulation. Langmuir. 2015, 31 (24): 67296741 Xiao Ma, and Pranav Shrotriya. Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Electrical Field Induced Conformational Transition and Associated Frictional Performance of Monomolecular Films. Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics. 2012, 45 (37), 375306 Haiyan Zhao, Xiao Ma, Zhipeng Cai, and P.C.Wang. Effect of Low Temperature Exposure on Impact Characteristics of Epoxy Bonded High Strength Steels. Science and Technology of Welding and Joining. 2011, 16 (5): 405-411 Haiyan Zhao, Xinjie Duan, Xiao Ma, Li Lu, Zhipeng Cai, P.C.Wang, and J. D. Fickes. Dynamic Characteristics of Adhesive Bonded High Strength Steel Joints. Science and Technology of Welding and Joining. 2010, 15 (6): 486 - 490 Xuan Chen, Yulong Li, Feifei Shi, Haiyan Zhao and Xiao Ma. Influences of Adherent Thickness, Temperature and Velocity on Strength of Adhesively-bonded Single-lap Joints. Explosion and Shock Waves. 2009, 29 (5): 449- 456 Xiao Ma, Haiyan Zhao, Zhipeng Cai, Li Lu, and Huiping Peng. Research Development on Dynamic Mechanical Properties of Joints. Materials for Mechanical Engineering. 2007, 31 (5): 5-8 Preprint and Conference Articles Xiao Ma, Ellen O'Shaughnessy, Klaus M. Hahn, and Gaudenz Danuser. Characterization of Spectral Feature upon Cellular Morphodynamics and its Application. Biophysical Journal. 2019, 116(3): 292a Bahador Marzban, Xiao Ma, Xiaoliang Qing, and Hongyan Yuan. In Silico Mechanobiochemical Modeling of Morphogenesis in Cell Monolayers. bioRxiv. 2018, 189175 Ellen O'Shaughnessy, Tim Jacobs, Xiao Ma, Denis Tsygankov, Brian Kuhlman, Gaudenz Danuser, and Klaus M. Hahn. Use of Orthogonal Binding Interfaces to Develop Small GTPase Biosensors with Greatly Reduced Cellular Perturbation. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 2017, 28 Xiao Ma, Onur Dagliyan, Klaus M. Hahn, and Gaudenz Danuser. Morphodynamic Profiling of Cell Protrusion based on Spatiotemporal Spectrum Decomposition and Unsupervised Clustering. Biophysical Journal. 2017, 112(3): 45a Xiao Ma, Onur Dagliyan, Klaus M. Hahn, and Gaudenz Danuser. Profiling of Cellular Morphodynamic Behavior based on Spatiotemporal Spectrum Decomposition and Clustering. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 2016, 27 Xiao Ma, and Pranav Shrotriya. Electrostatic Actuation Based Modulation of Interaction between Protein and DNA Aptamer, Mechanics of Biological Systems and Materials. Part of the proceedings of Society for Experimental Mechanics Annual Conference. 2014, Volume 4, Chapter 23, 163-167 Xiao Ma, and Pranav Shrotriya. Study on Specific Binding Interaction Between Protein and DNA Aptamer via Dynamic Force Spectroscopy, Biological Nanomechanics: Materials Factors in Physiology, Disease and Treatment, Part of the proceedings of ASME 2nd Global Congress on NanoEngineering for Medicine and Biology. 2013, V001T06A002 Xiao Ma, and Pranav Shrotriya. Research on Force Interaction between Protein and DNA. Biological and Nanoscale Science, part of the proceedings of Graduate Research Symposium. 2012, 1-2 Xiao Ma, Pranav Shrotriya, and Janice Marquardt. Study on Protein/DNA Force Interaction via Atomic Force Microscopy. Biological and Nanoscale Science, part of the proceedings of Excellence of Graduate Research Conference. 2011, 1-2 Awards Research Excellence Awards, Iowa State University, 2013 Travel Awards for best graduate student paper competition in 49th SES conference, 2012 Travel Awards for best graduate student paper competition in 47th SES conference, 2010 Teaching Excellence Awards, Iowa State University, 2009 Email xm8 [at] nyu.edu Phone +1-646-997-3575 Office 6 MetroTech Center, Jacob Administration Building, Rm 256B Main Menu NYU Tandon Made in Brooklyn Quick Links NYU Libraries NYU Classes NYU Albert Accessibility Bulletin Directory Login (Faculty & Staff) Information For Students Faculty Staff Alumni Parents Industry Media Careers at Tandon Contact Contact Us 646-997-3600 NYU Campuses New York Shanghai Abu Dhabi NYU Tandon Made in Brooklyn Make a Gift Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn NYU Tandon 2020
