Yao Wang | NYU Tandon School of Engineering Skip to Main Content NYU Tandon Logo Undergraduate Graduate Online Departments Applied Physics Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Urban Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Finance and Risk Engineering Mathematics Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering NYU Tandon Online Technology, Culture and Society Technology Management and Innovation Degrees & Programs Bachelor of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Certificate Programs NYU Tandon Bridge Industry Partner Programs K12 STEM Support & Services Undergraduate Services Graduate Services Financial Aid & Fellowships Records & Registration Online Learning Services Faculty Innovations (FITL) Areas of Excellence Research Centers & Institutes Labs & Groups Student Research Entrepreneurship MakerSpace Student Affairs & Activities Career Services Support & Resources International Students Alumni Giving Partnerships Overview Explore NYU Tandon Fast Facts Year in Review Strategic Plan Leadership History Community Diversity & Inclusion Brooklyn Visit News & Events News Events Social Media Podcast Media Inquiries Search NYU Tandon Fulltext search Common Questions This is a sample question Admissions + Academics + Research & Innovation + Student Life + Engage + About + Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online Academics Departments Applied Physics Biomedical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Urban Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Finance and Risk Engineering Mathematics Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering NYU Tandon Online Technology, Culture and Society Technology Management and Innovation Degrees & Programs Bachelor of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Certificate Programs NYU Tandon Bridge Industry Partner Programs K12 STEM Support & Services Undergraduate Services Graduate Services Financial Aid & Fellowships Records & Registration Online Learning Services Faculty Innovations (FITL) Research & Innovation Areas of Excellence Research Centers & Institutes Labs & Groups Student Research Entrepreneurship MakerSpace Student Life Student Affairs & Activities Career Services Support & Resources International Students Engage Alumni Giving Partnerships About Overview Explore NYU Tandon Fast Facts Year in Review Strategic Plan Leadership History Community Diversity & Inclusion Brooklyn Visit News & Events News Events Social Media Podcast Media Inquiries The latest guidance on Fall 2020classes at NYU Tandon. | Visit NYU Returns for additional information. Faculty Yao Wang , Ph.D. Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, and Radiology Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs Biomedical Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Connect Yao Wang is a recognized expert in video coding, networked video applications, medical imaging, and computer vision. She joined the faculty of Polytechnic Institute of New York University in 1990 as an assistant professor and became an associate professor in 1996 and a professor in 2000. She holds a joint appointment in Dept. Electrical and Computer Engineering and Dept. Biomedical Engineering, both in NYU Tandon School of Engineering, and has an Affiliated Appointment in the Radiology Department of NYU School of Medicine.She is the Speaker for the NYU Tandon Faculty from Sept. 2017 Aug. 2019. Wang received her Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in Electronic Engineering from Tsinghua University in Beijing, China in 1983 and 1985, respectively, and a PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of California at Santa Barbara in 1990. She authored the well-known textbook Video Processing and Communications in addition to writing numerous book chapters and journal articles. She has also served as the associate editor of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Transactions on Multimedia and Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology. Wang was elected a Fellow of the IEEE for her contributions to video processing and communications in 2004. She received the New York City Mayors Award for Excellence in Science and Technology, Young Investigator Category, in 2000; the IEEE Communications Society Leonard G. Abraham Prize Paper Award in the Field of Communications Systems in 2004; the IEEE Communications Society Multimedia Communication Technical Committee Best Paper Award in 2011. She received the Overseas Outstanding Young Investigator Award from the Natural Science Foundation of China in 2005; and was named the Yangtze River Lecture Scholar by the Ministry of Education in China in 2007.She was a keynote speaker at the 2010 International Packet Video Workshop, and a keynote speaker at the 2018 Picture Coding Symposium. She received the Distinguished Teacher Award of NYU Tandon School of Engineering in 2016.She has many past and on-going research projects funded by National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health. Research Interests: Image and Video Processing, Video Compression and Transport, Medical Imaging, Computer Vision, Machine Learning Education Tsinghua University, Beijing, P.R. China, 1983 Bachelor of Science, Electrical Engineering Tsinghua University, Beijing, P.R. China, 1985 Master of Science, Electrical Engineering University of California at Santa Barbara, 1990 Doctor of Philosophy, Electrical Engineering Experience AT&T Labs - Research, NJ Part-time Consultant From: January 1992 to December 2000 New York University (formerly Polytechnic Institute of NYU, Polytechnic University, Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute) Professor From: June1990 to present Publications Authored/Edited Books Yao Wang, Jrn Ostermann, and Ya-Qin Zhang ,Video Processing and Communications,Prentice Hall, 2002 (Published September 2001) ISBN 0-13-017547-1. Other Publications Video lab publication list Research Briefs View More Resource constrained mobile data analytics assisted by the wireless edge From The National Science Foundation Current Projects, Research Labs, and Groups NYU Video Lab Research activities in Professor Yao Wangs group deal with encoding and distributing ... NYU WIRELESS NYU WIRELESS is an innovative academic research center with a ... Center for Advanced Technology in Telecommunications (CATT) Creating economic impact through research, technology transfer, and faculty entrepreneurship. ... Email yw523 [at] nyu.edu Phone 646.997.3469 Website Video Lab Office 370 Jay Street, 9th Floor, Room 957 Latest Stories & Events All Events News Tandon COVID-19 research response is certifiably RAPID News The Tandon community unites against COVID19 Main Menu NYU Tandon Made in Brooklyn Quick Links NYU Libraries NYU Classes NYU Albert Accessibility Bulletin Directory Login (Faculty & Staff) Information For Students Faculty Staff Alumni Parents Industry Media Careers at Tandon Contact Contact Us 646-997-3600 NYU Campuses New York Shanghai Abu Dhabi NYU Tandon Made in Brooklyn Make a Gift Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn NYU Tandon 2020
