Department of Statistics - Faculty Positions Columbia Home Department of Statistics Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle navigation Department of StatisticsColumbia University Home About Contact Us Location & Directions About Us Department History Computing Programs Undergraduate Programs M.A. Programs Ph.D. Program Certificate Program BA/MA Program Bridge to the Ph.D. Program in STEM Undergraduate Summer Internship Applied Statistics Center Center for Applied Probability Grossman Center Courses Fall Courses Spring Courses Summer Courses Course Descriptions Ph.D. Courses Help Room Statistics: Undergraduate Course Schedule 20-21 Academic Year Virtual Exam Guidelines AY20/21 Virtual Exam Planning Worksheet AY20/21 Calendar Department Calendar Seminars Statistics Seminar Series Student Seminar Series Statistical Machine Learning Seminar Probability Seminar Series Mathematical Finance Seminar Applied Probability and Risk Seminar Series Pfizer/ASA/Columbia University Symposium on AI in Clinical Drug Development Focus Series Seminar Listing People Faculty and Lecturers Department Directory Administrative Staff Ph.D. Students Program Directors Adjunct Faculty Visiting Faculty Post-docs Visiting Scholars Summer Visitors Alumni Faculty Positions Consulting Consulting Information News Department News Focus Series Search Faculty PositionsDepartment of Statistics Columbia University Lecturer in Discipline Position Starting Fall 2021 The Department of Statistics invites applications for multiple positions at the rank of Lecturer in Discipline to begin July 1, 2021. These are full-time appointments with multi-year renewal contingent on successful review. These positions will contribute to the departmental educational mission at the undergraduate and masters levels. Lecturers in Discipline are officers in the University who meet a programmatic need for instruction in specialized fields. The selected candidates will be expected to teach 3 courses per semester. A Ph.D. in Statistics or related field and a commitment to high-quality teaching at both the undergraduate and MA levels in Statistics and/or Probability are required. Experience with online education is desirable but not required. Candidates will be expected to participate in the full gamut of statistics education including curriculum improvement, modifying and developing courses, and exploring new strategies for the teaching of statistics. The department currently consists of 35 faculty members and 60 PhD students. The department has been expanding rapidly and, like the university itself, is an extraordinarily vibrant academic community. We are especially interested in candidates who, through their research, teaching and/or service, will contribute to the diversity and excellence of the academic community. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply. For further information about the department and our activities, centers, research areas, and curricular programs, please go to our web page at: http://www.stat.columbia.edu. All applications must be submitted through Columbias online Recruitment of Academic Personnel System (RAPS) and must include the following materials: cover letter, curriculum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, research statement, evidence of teaching effectiveness (teaching evaluations), a sample course syllabus and the names of 3 references. Applicants also should arrange for three letters of recommendation to be uploaded on their behalf. For more information and to apply, please go to: http://pa334.peopleadmin.com/postings/6606 Inquiries may be made to Dood Kalicharan at dk@stat.columbia.edu Review of applications begins on February 1, 2021 and will continue until the position is filled. Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action employer. Quick LinksContact Us Faculty and Lecturers Department Calendar Department News Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs M.A. Statistics Programs M.A. in Mathematical Finance M.S. in Actuarial Science M.A. in Quantitative Methods in the Social Sciences M.S. IDSE Ph.D. Program BA/MA Program Seminars Computing Help Room Statistics: Undergraduate Course Schedule 20-21 Academic Year Upcoming EventsRecent Faculty PublicationsFrom Decoupling and Self-Normalization to Machine LearningVictor H. de la PenaStabilized Sparse Online Learning for Sparse DataYuting Ma, Tian ZhengCapacity-Achieving Sparse Superposition Codes via Approximate Message Passing DecodingCynthia Rush, Adam Greig, Ramji VenkataramananSlice Sampling on Hamiltonian TrajectoriesJohn P. Cunningham, Benjamin Bloem-ReddyFeature Augmentation via Nonparametrics and Selection (FANS) in High Dimensional ClassificationFan, J., Feng, Y., Jiang, J. and Tong, X.Topic-adjusted visibility metric for scientific articles. Ann. Appl. Stat. 10 (2016), no. 1, 1--31.Linda S. L. Tan, Aik Hui Chan, and Tian ZhengBoosted Sparse Non-linear Distance Metric LearningYuting Ma and Tian Zheng Columbia University In the City of New York 116th Street and Broadway, New York, NY 10027 2014 Columbia University Website by Sunray Computer DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS Columbia University Room 1005 SSW, MC 4690 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212.851.2132 Fax: 212.851.2164 Contact Us
