Tim Chartier | Davidson Skip to main content Site search keywords Search search menu Main navigation About Fast Facts History & Traditions Leadership Statement of Purpose #DAVIDSONTRUE The Arts Offices and Services Academics Majors & Minors Advising & Support Internships Research Study Abroad Academic Departments Admission & Aid Apply Visit Explore Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Campus Life Activities & Organizations Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Leadership & Service Religious & Spiritual Life After Davidson Careers & Outcomes Fellowships Volunteer Apply Visit Give Apply Visit Give Utility Links Alumni & Families Athletics Library Diversity News & Events Directories COVID-19 Tools and Resources for New Students Current Students Parents & Families Faculty & Staff Business & Community Breadcrumb Home People Tim Chartier Tim Chartier Professor of Mathematics Education Ph.D. University of Colorado, Boulder M.S.,B.S. Western Michigan University Areas of Expertise Data Analytics Sports Analytics, Ranking Numerical Linear Algebra Background I'm an applied mathematician with a focus in computer science, and I frequently work in data analytics with a specialty in sports analytics. I've worked with the NBA, ESPN's Sport Science, NASCAR teams, and fantasy sports sites. I also direct and work with a team of about two dozen student researchers to provide analytics to Davidson College sports teams. In addition to my teaching and research, I coauthored Numerical Methods: Design, Analysis, and Computer Implementation of Algorithms with Anne Greenbaum andauthoredMath Bytes: Google Bombs, Chocolate-Covered Pi, and Other Cool Bits in Computing, which received the Euler Book Prize from the Mathematical Association of America.Both books were published by Princeton University Press. I also authored When Life is Linear: From Computer Graphics to Bracketology, published by the Mathematical Association of America, which won the Beckenbach Book Prize as a distinguished, innovative book.It was also an honor to receive the Mathematical Association of Americas Daniel Solow Authors Award, which recognizes an author of undergraduate mathematics teaching materials with the primary criteria for selection being the materials impact on undergraduate education in mathematics and/or the mathematical sciences. I am a recipient of a national teaching award from the Mathematical Association of America. In addition to teaching at the college level, I have worked with Google and Pixar on their K-12 educational initiatives. I also received an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship for my research, and have served as an expert resource for a variety of media inquiries, including appearances with Bloomberg TV, NPR, the CBS Evening News, USA Today, and The New York Times. Ialso serve as Chair of the Congress of the Mathematical Association of America and Section Representative for the Southeastern Section of the Mathematical Association of America. I previously served as the first chair of the Advisory Council for the National Museum of Mathematics. Bracketology A lot of sports tournament matchups are determined through brackets. Chartier teaches students how to create mathematical formulas/models to predict winners using bracketology and ranking, a system that has applications in many other fields. Contact tichartier@davidson.edu 704-894-2838 Department(s) Mathematics and Computer Science Experts Box 6908 Jackson Court 6 Davidson College The Davidson College wordmark. Davidson, North Carolina 28035 USA (704) 894-2000 Contact Information Work at Davidson Maps & Directions Contact Us Follow the Latest at #DavidsonCollege Social Hub Instagram Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Davidson College Privacy Policy & Terms of Use Accessibility College Policies & Procedures
