Lisa M. Zurk | Portland State University Skip to main content Search Electrical and Computer Engineering Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan Electrical and Computer Engineering Programs Undergraduate Programs Upper-Division Admissions 4+1 BS+MS Program Undergraduate Advising Track Course Plans Override Request Form Graduate Programs MS Admissions MS Program Requirements MS Program Tracks Westside Program PhD Admissions PhD Priority Admission - Fall Cohort PhD Program Requirements Teaching Assistantships Postbaccalaureate Bridge Program to MS Internship Programs and Career Opportunities Research Environmental Sensing and Monitoring Focus Power Engineering Focus Research News Research Laboratories Faculty Research Seminars Resources for ECE Students Course Information Yearly Course Guides Course List and Descriptions Resources for ECE Students ECE Labs and Facilities Undergraduate Tutoring Student Clubs and Organizations Scholarships Directory Faculty Staff Office Hours About About ECE Program Educational Outcomes Policies Events Capstone Graduation Contact Search Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact PSU Home myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan PSU Electrical and Computer Engineering Lisa M. Zurk Lisa M. Zurk Professor Emeritus Contact:zurkl@pdx.edu Faculty Website:http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~zurkl/ Education: Ph.D. University of Washington M.S.Northeastern University B.S.Universityof Massachusetts, Amherst Research Interests: Underwater acoustics and sonar signal processing Terahertz sensing for explosive detection and biomedical imaging Characterization of sensing phenomenon for physics-based processing Wave propagation modeling for electromagnetics and acoustics Development of (adaptive) signal processing techniques Applications in sensor exploitation (radar, sonar, electro-optic/video) Profile: Lisa M. Zurk joined the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at PSU's Maseeh College of Engineering and Computer Science in January 2005, Before coming to PSU, she spent nine years at MIT Lincoln Laboratory, conducting research in understanding the physics of electromagnetic and acoustics wave propagation through modeling and measurement in order to devise advanced, physics-based signal processing techniques. While at MIT, Dr. Zurk took a one-year sabbatical to teach and conduct research as a visiting Fulbright Professor in the University of Helsinski Math Department. Prior to MIT, she spent four years in industry in the area of biomedical instrumentation. Dr. Zurk received her bachelor's degree in computer science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst in 1985, her master's in electrical and computer engineering at Northeastern University in 1991, and her Ph.D. in electrical engineering at the University of Washington in 1995. Dr. Zurk founded the Northwest Electromagnetic and Acoustics Research Laboratory (NEAR-Lab) in the Maseeh College. She is the author of over 100 technical publications and serves on numerous professional committees. Professional Affiliations: Acoustical Society of America (ASA) - Fellow Electromagnetics Academy - Fellow Senior Member IEEE IEEE Honors Society Eta Kappa Nu Honors Society (IEEE-HKN) Awards and Recognition: 2006 Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) 2006 NSF CAREER Award 2005 ONR Faculty Award 2002-2003 MIT Leader-to-Leader Fellow 2000-2002 Fulbright Scholar 1995 Young Scientist Award 1995 Pew Teaching Leadership Award Selected Publications: G. P. Kniffin, J. K. Boyle, L. M. Zurk, and M. Siderius, Performance metrics for depth-based signal separation using deep vertical line arrays, The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 139.1 (2016): 418-425. S. Schecklman and L. M. Zurk, Striation processing of continuously active sonar data, The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, Pittsburgh, PA; 137(4):2438-2438. May 2015. S. Schecklman, N. Laws, L. M. Zurk, M. Siderius, A computational method to predict and study the underwater noise due to pile driving, Journal of the Acoustics Society of America. 2015. L. M. Zurk, H. H. Ou, S. Schecklman, A. Lutwak, Acoustic Monitoring of Marine Conservation Areas, Marine Technology Society Journal, Vol. 48, No. 6, pp. 21-32, 2014. C. He, J. E. Quijano and L. M. Zurk, Enhanced Kalman Filter Algorithm using the Invariance Principle, IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering, Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 575-585, 2009. Contact PSU Contact PSU Main 503-725-3000 Outside Portland 800-547-8887 Legal Legal Accessibility Privacy Copyright Learn More Learn More Careers Coronavirus Response Support Support Find People Academic Programs Student Services 2020 Portland State University PSU social buttons PSU Facebook profile PSU Twitter profile PSU Instagram profile PSU YouTube profile PSU LinkedIn profile Search
