Malgorzata Chrzanowska-Jeske | Portland State University Skip to main content Search Electrical and Computer Engineering Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan Electrical and Computer Engineering Programs Undergraduate Programs Upper-Division Admissions 4+1 BS+MS Program Undergraduate Advising Track Course Plans Override Request Form Graduate Programs MS Admissions MS Program Requirements MS Program Tracks Westside Program PhD Admissions PhD Priority Admission - Fall Cohort PhD Program Requirements Teaching Assistantships Postbaccalaureate Bridge Program to MS Internship Programs and Career Opportunities Research Environmental Sensing and Monitoring Focus Power Engineering Focus Research News Research Laboratories Faculty Research Seminars Resources for ECE Students Course Information Yearly Course Guides Course List and Descriptions Resources for ECE Students ECE Labs and Facilities Undergraduate Tutoring Student Clubs and Organizations Scholarships Directory Faculty Staff Office Hours About About ECE Program Educational Outcomes Policies Events Capstone Graduation Contact Search Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact PSU Home myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan PSU Electrical and Computer Engineering Malgorzata Chrzanowska-Jeske Malgorzata Chrzanowska-Jeske Professor Contact: Fourth Avenue Building 160-12 (503)7255415jeske@ece.pdx.edu Education: Ph.D. Auburn University M.S.Technical University of Warsaw, PolandResearch Interests: Computer-Aided Design 3D Integration Micro- and Nanoelectronics Emerging Technologies Logic Synthesis Courses: ECE 428/528 VLSI Design Automation ECE 529/629 Advanced VLSI Computer-Aided design Profile: Professor Chrzanowska-Jeskes research includes developing methodologies and tools for designing and performance, power efficiency, reliability and yield evaluation of three-dimensional (3D) integration of VLSI systems. Her research interests also includes heterogeneous integration and design, and optimization issues in emerging technologies, including design and performance evaluation of carbon-nanotube FETs. She joined the ECE Department at PSU in 1989 and was the Department Chair from 2004 to 2010. She has presented at tutorial, keynote and invited talks at various international conferences and events and published more than 150 technical papers. Dr. Chrzanowska-Jeske serves as a panelist and reviewer for the National Science Foundation (NSF), and as a reviewer for the National Research Council Canada (NRC), and many international journals and conferences. Her research has been supported by the NSF and industry. Dr. Chrzanowska-Jeske has served in various roles on the Technical, Steering, and Organizing Committees of many international conferences and workshops and as Senior Editor, Associate Editor and Guest Editor of international journals. From 2008 to 2013, she served two terms on the Board of Governors of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CASS) where she was also the Chair of the Distinguished Lecturer Program, the Chair and founding-member of Women in CAS. Currently, she serves as Vice President for Technical Activities for the IEEE Nanotechnology Council (NTC). Professional Affiliations: Senior member IEEE IEEE Circuits and Systems Society IEEE Nanotechnology Council IEEE Council on Electronic Design Automation Awards and Recognition: 2006 The Donald O. Pederson Best Paper Award in IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided-Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems awarded by IEEE Council on Electronic Design Automation. 1995 DAC Scholarship Award for Research on Regular System design from Special Interest Group on Design Automation,1990 Best Paper Award from IEEE Alabama Section for the best IEEE Transactions paper in 1990. 1993 Women of Distinction in Engineering Award, Columbia Girl Scout Council. Selected Publications: M. Ali, M. A. Ahmed, M. Chrzanowska-Jeske, Logical Effort model for CNFET circuits with CNTs variations, Proceedings of the IEEE NANO 2015 Conference (NANO 2015), Rome, Italy, August 1-3, 2015. M. A. Ahmed, S. Mohapatra, M. Chrzanowska-Jeske, Dynamic Nets-to-TSVs Assignment in 3D Floorplanning, Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, ISCAS 2015, Lisbon, Portugal, May 2015. M. Chrzanowska-Jeske, R. Ashraf, R. Nain, S. G. Narendra, "Performance Analysis of CNFET Based Circuits in the Presence of Fabrication Imperfections", Proceedings of IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, ISCAS 2012. R. Nain, M. Chrzanowska-Jeske, Fast Placement-aware 3D Floorplanning using Vertical Constraints on Sequence Pairs, IEEE Trans. On Very Large Scale Integration Systems, vol. 19, no.9, pp.1667-1680, September 2011. R. Ashraf, M. Chrzanowska-Jeske, S. G. Narendra, Functional yield Estimation of carbon nanotube-based logic Gates in the Presence of Defects IEEE Trans. On Nanotechnology, vol.9, no.6, pp.687-700, Nov. 2010. Contact PSU Contact PSU Main 503-725-3000 Outside Portland 800-547-8887 Legal Legal Accessibility Privacy Copyright Learn More Learn More Careers Coronavirus Response Support Support Find People Academic Programs Student Services 2020 Portland State University PSU social buttons PSU Facebook profile PSU Twitter profile PSU Instagram profile PSU YouTube profile PSU LinkedIn profile Search
