Faculty Research Seminars | Portland State University Skip to main content Search Electrical and Computer Engineering Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan Electrical and Computer Engineering Programs Undergraduate Programs Upper-Division Admissions 4+1 BS+MS Program Undergraduate Advising Track Course Plans Override Request Form Graduate Programs MS Admissions MS Program Requirements MS Program Tracks Westside Program PhD Admissions PhD Priority Admission - Fall Cohort PhD Program Requirements Teaching Assistantships Postbaccalaureate Bridge Program to MS Internship Programs and Career Opportunities Research Environmental Sensing and Monitoring Focus Power Engineering Focus Research News Research Laboratories Faculty Research Seminars Resources for ECE Students Course Information Yearly Course Guides Course List and Descriptions Resources for ECE Students ECE Labs and Facilities Undergraduate Tutoring Student Clubs and Organizations Scholarships Directory Faculty Staff Office Hours About About ECE Program Educational Outcomes Policies Events Capstone Graduation Contact Search Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact PSU Home myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan PSU Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty Research Seminars Faculty Research Seminars Smart Switching Power Electronics Dr. Mahima Gupta November 20th, 2020 Power electronic converters comprise of solid-state switching devices and energy storage elements. The power density of converters have drastically increased since the 1970s.This can be attributed to thecontinuous advancement of power semiconductor device technology that allowed the increasein the switching frequencies of power converters. However, the pace of this advancement hasslowed down in the recent past.This talk will present the principles of smart-switching pulse width modulation (PWM) approaches which can enable dramatic reductions in the energy storage requirements for high-density power conversion (0.1-10F vs. 100-1000F). Smart switching approaches feature an intelligent switching sequence, accurate duty ratio calculation and robust fast bandwidth controls. Along with a discussion on the main features of smart-switching, several applications of smart-switching PWM approaches will be presented with simulation and experimental results. Dr. Gupta's presentation slides Past, present, and future of crystal-free chip-scale wireless sensor nodes Dr. David Burnett October 16th, 2020 Millimeter-scale wireless sensor nodes are within reach thanks to recent advances in crystal-free RF communication. Complete wireless systems, usually referred to as "modules," have been limited to sizes of approximately 1cm x 1cm in both industry and academia because they require off-chip components assembled via PCB in addition to the wireless IC. Recent breakthroughs show these components can be eliminated to yield a chip-scale system with incredible applications in implantable medical devices, high-density sensor networks, and animal instrumentation. This talk will describe relevant background pertaining to crystal-free communication and explore the future possibilities these developments enable. Dr. Burnett's presentation slides Inverse Problems, Constraint Satisfaction, Reversible Logic, Invertible Logic and Grover Quantum Oracles for Practical Problems Dr. Marek Perkowski May 29th, 2020 Dr Perkowski's presentation slides. Dr Perkowski's presentation paper. Material characterization of microwave absorbers and ferroelectrics + whats going on in engineering education research Dr. Branimir Pejinovi April 17th, 2020 In this presentation I will address three different research topics, mainly to pique peoples interest and curiosity. Two deal with the material characterization of a) microwave absorbers, and b) ferroelectrics. For the third one, I will argue that there are many areas of engineering education that are worthy of exploration for which I am seeking collaborators. A.The shielding of electronic devices is important for reasons ranging from regulatory to proper device functioning, and in applications from defense to consumer electronics. I will discuss the development and characterization of a novel microwave absorber material (MF-RAM) based on micron-sized ferrite beads and mm-length carbon fibers which are deposited electrostatically using the flocking process. The material is thin, lightweight, broadband and customizable with respect to frequency and amount of absorption. It was developed by Tangitek and at PSU we have characterized it in free space and in waveguides. We have demonstrated that MF-RAM exhibits losses associated with both electric and magnetic fields and could be more than competitive with commercially available solutions. I will also explain the basics of material characterization techniques used. B.Despite their name, ferroelectrics have nothing to do with the magnetic field. Instead, they exhibit a behavior that is reminiscent of magnetic field hysteresis, i.e., they can maintain two different polarization states inside the material, depending on the signal trajectory (or history). Because they can have two different states when the electric field is zero they can be utilized as simple memory elements. However, their scaling to very thin layers is difficult and not well understood. I will present some recent measurement results on structures developed by a local startup. C.Potential research topics engineering education will be illustrated with a couple of examples: 1. Investigating the time and effort that students spend studying, 2. Investigating how well students are prepared for life-long-learning. These are complex problems and I will discuss some tools and recent observations that could be turned into research projects. Dr Pejcinovic's presentation slides. An Introduction to the Research being Conducted in the Portland State University Magnetomechanical Energy Conversion and Controls Laboratory Dr. Jonathan Bird February 28th, 2020 In this presentation I will discuss three exciting research topics that are being investigated in the PSUs laboratory for magnetomechanical energy conversion and control: (1) magnetic gears for improved power conversion, (2) negative stiffness resonant ocean power generators and (3) maglev vehicle transportation using electrodynamic wheels. Dr Bird's presentation abstract. Leveraging Signal Structure for Efficient and Adaptive Machine Learning Dr. John Lipor January 24th, 2020 Abstract: Many major contributions to signal processing theory have centered around recognizing structure in signals of interest, with prominent examples being the Shannon-Nyquist sampling theorem for bandlimited signals and compressed sensing for signals that are sparse in some domain. In both examples, a key theme is that the structure in these signals can be leveraged to make the most efficient use of the available sampling resources. In this talk, I discuss how this general approach can be extended to the problems of data clustering and level set estimation. In the former case, high-dimensional signals can be effectively sorted (clustered) by recognizing the low-dimensional structure inherent in data from different clusters. In the latter, smoothness in the level set boundary or correlations between points can be harnessed to estimate level sets while minimizing the number of measurements taken, the distance between sampled points, or other costs associated with sampling. In all cases, the underlying structure allows for efficient signal reconstruction with a variety of theoretical guarantees. Dr. Lipor's presentation slides. Machine Learning for Anomaly Detection in Multi-Dimensional Data Dr. Stanley R. Rotman,Harold Schnitzer Visiting Scholar fromBen-Gurion University of the Negev November 22nd, 2019 Abstract: Multi-dimensional signals, such as Hyperspectral or Temporal Synthetic Aperture Radar, have very complicated distributions; machine learning promises to be a reasonable approach to determining structure in the data without any prior assumptions. In this talk, we will consider Non-Negative Matrix Factorization (NNMF) as a method to both determine trends in the data and to significantly reduce the number of redundant dimensions. We will use this transformed data for advanced anomaly detection. Slides for presentation part 1 Slides for presentation part 2 Achieving and Exploiting Fairness in the N-player Ultimatum Game Dr. Garrison Greenwood October 18th, 2019 The Ultimatum Game is studied to see how people respond in bargaining situations. In the 2-player version each round a player can be a proposer or a responder. A proposer makes an offer on how to split a monetary amount and responder either accepts or rejects the offer. If accepted, the money is split as proposed; if rejected both players get nothing. N-player models suggest offers decrease over time but are still accepted. However, in human experiments players acted irrationally and rejected offers they deemed unfair. In this talk it is shown a (/,)-evolution strategy can evolve offer and acceptance thresholds that promote fairness. Then a single self-interested player is added who ignores fairness and instead exploits the other players by maximizing his payoffs. Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is used to adaptively control this self-interested player's offer levels during the game. Our results indicate MCTS can produce payoffs for this player as much as 40% higher than the population average payoff. Dr Greenwood's presentation slides. ECE Graduate Programs Research Laboratories Research News ECE Faculty Contact PSU Contact PSU Main 503-725-3000 Outside Portland 800-547-8887 Legal Legal Accessibility Privacy Copyright Learn More Learn More Careers Coronavirus Response Support Support Find People Academic Programs Student Services 2020 Portland State University PSU social buttons PSU Facebook profile PSU Twitter profile PSU Instagram profile PSU YouTube profile PSU LinkedIn profile Search
