Ivan Sutherland | Portland State University Skip to main content Search Electrical and Computer Engineering Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan Electrical and Computer Engineering Programs Undergraduate Programs Upper-Division Admissions 4+1 BS+MS Program Undergraduate Advising Track Course Plans Override Request Form Graduate Programs MS Admissions MS Program Requirements MS Program Tracks Westside Program PhD Admissions PhD Priority Admission - Fall Cohort PhD Program Requirements Teaching Assistantships Postbaccalaureate Bridge Program to MS Internship Programs and Career Opportunities Research Environmental Sensing and Monitoring Focus Power Engineering Focus Research News Research Laboratories Faculty Research Seminars Resources for ECE Students Course Information Yearly Course Guides Course List and Descriptions Resources for ECE Students ECE Labs and Facilities Undergraduate Tutoring Student Clubs and Organizations Scholarships Directory Faculty Staff Office Hours About About ECE Program Educational Outcomes Policies Events Capstone Graduation Contact Search Apply Visit campus Request Info Give Contact PSU Home myPSU I am a ... Current Student Transfer Student Faculty / Staff Student Veteran Parent Alumni Vikings Fan PSU Electrical and Computer Engineering Ivan Sutherland Ivan Sutherland Visiting Scientist, ACM Fellow Contact: Fourth Avenue Building 105 -Asynchronous Research Center (310) 963-0603 ies@pdx.edu Faculty Website:http://arc.cecs.pdx.edu/ Education: Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology M.S. Caltech B.S.Carnegie Institute of Technology Research Interests: Design of self-timed and asynchronous circuits, systems, design methods, and design tools Profile: Ivan E. Sutherland (M62) received his B.S. degree from the Carnegie Institute of Technology, his M.S. degree from the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, and his Ph.D. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, in 1963, all in electrical engineering. He holds honorary degrees from Harvard University, the University of North Carolina, and the University of Utah. He joined Sun in 1990 as a Sun Fellow, Suns highest technical rank. He leads a small group working on asynchronous systems; his group develops asynchronous circuit methodologies and design techniques for fast CMOS circuits and applies them to new hardware architectures. His book, Logical Effort, published in 1999 with joint authors Sproull and Harris, describes the mathematics of designing fast circuits. His 1963 MIT Ph.D., Sketchpad, is very widely known, as is his early work on what is now known as Virtual Reality. He is author of 36 patents, as well as numerous publications and lectures. Dr. Sutherlands honors include the Turing Award, Kyoto Award and the Von Neumann Award. He is a Fellow of the ACM and a member of both the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences Professional Affiliations: Association for Computing Machinery Fellow Member, United States National Academy of Sciences National Academy of Engineering member Awards and Recognition: 2012 Kyoto Prize in the category of advanced technology 2016 National Inventors Hall of Fame Inductee 1998[9] IEEE John von Neumann Medal 1996 The Franklin Institute's Certificate of Merit 1994 Electronic Frontier Foundation EFF Pioneer Award 1993 ACM Software System Award 1988 Turing Award 1986 IEEE Emanuel R. Piore Award 1972 National Academy of Engineering First Zworykin Award 1996 CyberEdge Journal Virtual Reality Pioneer Award Selected Publications: Sutherland, 1963, Ph.D. Thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Sketchpad, A Man-Machine Graphical Communication System. Ivan Edward Sutherland, Robert F. Sproull, David, Logical Effort: Designing Fast CMOS Circuits, Academic Press, 1999. I. E. Sutherland, "Three-dimensional data input by tablet," in Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 62, no. 4, pp. 453-461, April 1974. R. J. Drost, R. D. Hopkins, R. Ho and I. E. Sutherland, "Proximity communication," in IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, no. 9, pp. 1529-1535, Sept. 2004. Hoon P., Anping He; Roncken, M.; Xiaoyu Song; Sutherland, I., Modular timing constraints for delay-insensitive systems, Journal of Computer Science and Technology, v 31, n 1, p 77-106, Jan. 2016. Contact PSU Contact PSU Main 503-725-3000 Outside Portland 800-547-8887 Legal Legal Accessibility Privacy Copyright Learn More Learn More Careers Coronavirus Response Support Support Find People Academic Programs Student Services 2020 Portland State University PSU social buttons PSU Facebook profile PSU Twitter profile PSU Instagram profile PSU YouTube profile PSU LinkedIn profile Search
