Faculty Positions Available | EECS at UC Berkeley Skip to main content Toggle navigation EECS at UC Berkeley Main menuAboutToggle submenu for AboutAbout Overview By the Numbers Diversity History Special Events Visiting AcademicsToggle submenu for AcademicsAcademics Overview Undergraduate Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs For Current Students Courses ResearchToggle submenu for ResearchResearch Overview Areas Centers & Labs Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleToggle submenu for PeoplePeople Overview Directory Leadership Faculty Students Staff Alumni ConnectToggle submenu for ConnectConnect Overview Support EECS K-12 Outreach Recruit Students Student Affairs Faculty Positions Contact Secondary menuHome For Students For Faculty/Staff Industry News Events Give Toggle Search Search form Search Search Home Connect Faculty Positions Faculty Positions Available In This PageThere are currently two EECS faculty positions open.Assistant Professor, Quantum Computing and Information Science Electrical Engineering and Computer SciencesAn approved tenure-track position in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the Assistant Professor level in the specialized area of Quantum Computing and Information Science (QCIS). Joint appointments with department-affiliated institutes and initiatives, or other UC Berkeley departments, will also be considered. Assistant Teaching ProfessorAn approved teaching-track position in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the Assistant Teaching Professor level. The appointment is formally titled as Lecturer with Potential for Security of Employment or LPSOE. There are no open faculty positions at this time. Link internal links to node/480#job1 and job2 Assistant Professor, Quantum Computing and Information Science Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences The University of California, Berkeley invites applications for an approved tenure-track position in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the Assistant Professor level in the specialized area of Quantum Computing and Information Science (QCIS). The expected start date for the position is July 1, 2021. Joint appointments with department-affiliated institutes and initiatives, or other UC Berkeley departments, will also be considered.Minimum Qualifications: The minimum qualification required to be considered an applicant for the position is a Ph.D. (or equivalent international degree), or enrolled in a Ph.D. or equivalent international degree-granting program at the time of application.Candidate applications should demonstrate exceptional performance and plans for creating innovative and far-reaching solutions to important problems in QCIS. Candidates should show potential to make interdisciplinary research contributions to advance the state of QCIS research and education. All aspects of QCIS will be considered. Preference will be given to applicants whose research, teaching, or service has prepared them to contribute to our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion in higher education. The department is committed to addressing the family needs of faculty, including dual career couples and single parents.Core Values: Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core values in the College of Engineering. Our excellence can only be fully realized by faculty, students, and staff who share our commitment to these values. Successful candidates for our faculty positions will demonstrate evidence of a commitment to equity and inclusion. Financial and in-kind resources are available to pursue activities that help accelerate our efforts to achieve our equity and inclusion goals, with the full backing of the College. Examples of ongoing programming at the College are available at: engineering.berkeley.edu/diversity. Support for faculty candidates on writing effective statements that demonstrate commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, can be found at: https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity/support-fa....How to ApplyTo apply go to: https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF02766Complete applications should be received by January 4, 2021, when the application period closes. Applications received after that date will not be considered. Applications will be considered complete only when all required materials have been received.Recommenders providing letters of reference should submit them as early as possible, preferably by January 4, 2021. Candidates are responsible for asking their references to upload letters as part of the online application process. All letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. Please refer potential recommenders, including when letters are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center), to the UC Berkeley statement of confidentiality: http://apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html prior to submitting their letters.If you have questions or need further information about this recruitment process, please email: eecs-faculty-recruiting@eecs.berkeley.edu.The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct Assistant Teaching Professor The University of California, Berkeley invites applications for an approved teaching-track position in Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the Assistant Teaching Professor level. The appointment is formally titled as Lecturer with Potential for Security of Employment or LPSOE. The expected start date for the position is July 1, 2021.Minimum QualificationsThe minimum qualification required to be considered an applicant for the position is a Ph.D. (or equivalent international degree), or enrolled in a Ph.D. or equivalent international degree-granting program at the time of application.Teaching-track faculty are educational professionals who combine instructional excellence with professional and/or scholarly achievement and activity, including creative activity, especially as they relate to instruction and pedagogy. We seek candidates who have demonstrated that they are promising computer science and engineering educators and who are interested in a teaching-focused career. Preference will be given to applicants with experience in teaching large courses---particularly courses with 200+ students---and managing large course staffs. A strong background in data science as well as computer science is advantageous. Preference will also be given to applicants whose teaching or service has prepared them to contribute to our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion in higher education. The department is committed to addressing the family needs of faculty, including dual career couples and single parents.Core ValuesDiversity, equity, and inclusion are core values in the College of Engineering. Our excellence can only be fully realized by faculty, students, and staff who share our commitment to these values. Successful candidates for our faculty positions will demonstrate evidence of a commitment to equity and inclusion. Financial and in-kind resources are available to pursue activities that help accelerate our efforts to achieve our equity and inclusion goals, with the full backing of the College. Examples of ongoing programming at the College are available at: http://engineering.berkeley.edu/diversity. Support for faculty candidates on writing effective statements that demonstrate commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, can be found at: https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity/support-faculty-candidates.How to ApplyTo apply go to: https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/JPF02771Complete applications should be received by January 4, 2021, when the application period closes. Applications received after that date will not be considered. Applications will be considered complete only when all required materials have been received.Recommenders providing letters of reference should submit them as early as possible, preferably by January 4, 2021. Candidates are responsible for asking their references to upload letters as part of the online application process. All letters will be treated as confidential per University of California policy and California state law. Please refer potential recommenders, including when letters are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center), to the UC Berkeley statement of confidentiality: http://apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.htmlprior to submitting their letters.If you have questions or need further information about this recruitment process, please email: eecs-faculty-recruiting@eecs.berkeley.edu.The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct Tenured Professor and Senior Scientist Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing The University of California, Berkeley invites applications for an approved tenured professorship at the Associate or Full Professor rank in one of several possible departments associated with the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing. Rank will be determined based on qualifications and experience. The appointee will also hold the title of Senior Scientist in the Simons Institute and will play an active leadership role in the conception and realization of Institute programs. The candidates designated home department is open but should be in a field closely related to the theory of computing. The expected start date for this position is July 1, 2020.The Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing is an exciting venue for collaborative research in theoretical computer science. Established in 2012 by a grant from the Simons Foundation, the Institutes goal is to bring together the worlds leading researchers in theoretical computer science and related fields, as well as the next generation of outstanding young scholars to explore deep unsolved problems about the nature and limits of computation.The minimum qualification required to be considered an applicant for the position is a Ph.D. (or equivalent international degree) at the time of application. The appointee should have an exceptionally broad vision of computer science and its relationship to other scientific disciplines, as well as a history of distinguished intellectual leadership and highly significant research achievements in theoretical computer science and related areas, an established record of excellent and innovative teaching, strong mentoring of Ph.D. students and postdoctoral researchers, and formulated programs involving domestic and international participants in a significant collaboration.Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core values in the Institute and the College of Engineering. Our excellence can only be fully realized by faculty, students, and staff who share our commitment to these values. Successful candidates for our faculty positions will demonstrate evidence of a commitment to equity and inclusion. Financial and in-kind resources are available to pursue activities that help accelerate our efforts to achieve our equity and inclusion goals, with the full backing of the College. Examples of ongoing programming at the College are available at: engineering.berkeley.edu/diversity. Support for faculty candidates on writing effective statements that demonstrate commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, can be found at: https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/contributions-diversity/support-faculty-candidates.Berkeley is committed to addressing the family needs of faculty, including dual career couples and single parents. Additional information about family responsive benefits and programs is available at: https://ofew.berkeley.edu/welfare/families.Applications must include a curriculum vitae and a statement that addresses past and potential future contributions to advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion through research, teaching, and/or service. Applicants may also submit an optional cover letter. All materials for applicants should be received by July 10, 2019, for full consideration. Applications received after that date will only be considered if the position is not filled. Applicants should apply online at:https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/JPF01830If you have questions or need further information about this recruitment process, please email: eecs-faculty-recruiting@eecs.berkeley.edu.The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimAffirmAct Please note that we do not offer technical internships in the EECS Department to the general public. Connect Support Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Contact Home AboutHistory Diversity Visiting Special Events AcademicsUndergrad Admissions & Programs Graduate Admissions & Programs Courses Prospective Women Students Current Students ResearchAreas Centers & Labs Projects Technical Reports PhD Dissertations Joint Colloquium BEARS Symposium PeopleDirectory Leadership Faculty Students Staff Alumni ResourcesRoom Reservations My EECS Info For Students For Grads For Undergrads GSIs/Readers/Tutors IT Services Facilities/Safety For Faculty/Staff Visiting Scholars IndustryRecruit Students Entrepreneurial Activity ConnectSupport Us K-12 Outreach Faculty Positions Contact Home EE CS UC Berkeley Berkeley Engineering News Events Berkley EECS on Twitter Berkeley EECS on Instagram Berkeley EECS on LinkedIn Berkeley EECS on YouTube 2020 UC Regents Privacy Policy
