Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering Faculty Search Applicant Support | College of Engineering & Applied Science | University of Colorado Boulder Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Close College of Engineering & Applied Science College of Engineering & Applied Science Menu Main menu HomeAboutNews & EventsResearchAcademicsAdmissionsCOVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu StudentsAlumniFaculty & StaffPartners Mobile menuHome About News & Events Research Academics Admissions COVID-19 Updates Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Partners Careers Contact Us Accreditation Give Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering Faculty Search Applicant Support Support for Applicants to the Open-RankSearch in the Department of Electrical, Computerand Energy Engineering CU Boulder Core Values Four mutually reinforcing core values form the basis of the campusInclusion, Diversityand Excellence in Academics Plan: diversity, inclusion, equityand excellence. These values build upon theColorado Creed, which charges all members of CU Boulder to interact with each other with integrity, respect differencesand contribute to the well-being of the entire community. Thank you for expressing interest in a faculty position within the Department of Electrical, Computer and Energy EngineeringatUniversity of Colorado Boulder! Nationally, we are ranked No. 20 among public electrical engineering graduate programs, and No. 15 among public computer engineering graduate programs byU.S. News and World Report.And, as one of only 36 U.S. public research institutions in the Association of American Universities (AAU), CU Boulderis all about realizing the positive impacts of new knowledge. We believe the best way to create new knowledgeis to have a diverse, creativeand entrepreneurial faculty. We value the advancement of diversity, equityand inclusion as an integral part of faculty research, teachingand service. The purpose of this information is to prepare you to write effective application materials that include your perspectives on promotinga diverse, equitableand inclusive academic culture. Open-Rank Search How We Define Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Excellence Diversity Diversity is fundamental to our success. It includes, but is not limited to, cultural differences, race and ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, pregnancy, age, (dis)ability, creed, religious or spiritual beliefs, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, class, gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation, and political philosophy (fromCU Board of Regents Policy 10P: Diversity). A diverse body of faculty, studentsand staff is necessary for CU Boulder to fulfill its goal of serving the people of Colorado, the nationand the world by bringing together a vibrant array of cultures, experiencesand perspectives, and drawing upon the creative sparks produced by such a mlange. Inclusion To reap the rewards of diversity, CU Boulder must be a truly inclusive university. The rich array of faculty, studentsand staff who constitute the diversity of the institution must be guaranteed opportunities for access, advancementand academic success. Communities cannot contribute fully to the intellectual and social life of the campus when they are marginalized, threatenedor demoralized, or when they believe that their voices are not heard by leadership and the broader campus community. Equity A commitment to equity underlies all efforts to be inclusive. We must identify and eliminate the barriers that have prevented, historically and presently, marginalized and underserved people from fully accessing the opportunities and resources they need to succeed. We must increase our collective and individual awareness of how these barriers manifest in the experiences of our faculty, studentsand staff. Beyond awareness, we must take concrete steps toward dismantling barriers in our policies, teaching, and hiring and promotion practices, and act affirmatively to support all of our communities. Everyone in the CU Boulder community deserves a fair chance to be highly successfulto see their demonstrated ability, with the right support, transformed into excellence. Excellence Commitment to becoming a diverse, inclusiveand equitable institution enhances CU Boulders excellence in research and teaching, its excellence as a workplace, and its excellence in service to the state of Colorado and beyond. Assessment & Examples of DEI Assessing your ability to advance equity and inclusion We evaluate faculty candidates' DEI statements in three main areas: Awareness of and ability to articulate understanding regarding diversity broadly conceived, and historical, socialand economic factors that influence the underrepresentation of particular groups in academia. Life experience may be an important aspect of this understanding. A track record, calibrated to career stage, of engagement and activity related to diversity, equityand inclusion. Demonstration requires specific details about these activities, including goals, strategiesand outcomes, as well as information about the role played. Strong evidence typically consists of multiple examples of action from undergraduate through current career stage. Specific, concrete goals, plansand priorities, calibrated to career stage, for engagement on diversity, equityand inclusion as a potential faculty member at CU Boulder. Ideally these plans involve an awareness of current programs and initiatives already taking place on campus. Learn more about ourcampusandcollegeequity and inclusion effortsand how to engage with them. Example areas of evidence for demonstrating contributions to advancing equity and inclusion: Knowledge and understanding Knowledge of, experience with, and interest in dimensions of diversity that result from different identities, such as ethnic, socioeconomic, racial, gender, sexual orientation, disabilityand cultural differences. Familiarity with demographic data related to diversity in higher education. Comfort discussing diversity-related issues. Understanding of mentorship power dynamics and personal-professional boundaries between faculty and students. Understanding of the challenges faced by underrepresented individuals, and the need to identify and eliminate barriers to their full and equitable participation and advancement. Teaching Strategies to create inclusive and welcoming teaching environments for all underrepresented students. Strategies to encourage both critical thinking and respectful dialogue in the classroom. Using new pedagogies and classroom strategies to advance equity and inclusion. Research Inclusive and respectful research environments. Mentoring and supporting the advancement and professional development of underrepresented students or postdocs. Research focused on underserved communities. Service/professional activities Outreach activities designed to remove barriers and to increase the participation of individuals from underrepresented groups. Participation in workshops and activities that help build multicultural competencies and create inclusive climates. Supporting student organizations that serve underrepresented groups. Participation with professional or scientific associations or meetings that aim to increase diversity or address the needs of underrepresented students, staffor faculty. Serving on university or college committees related to equity and inclusion or preventing sexual and gender harassment and violence. Material modified from University of California Berkeley Faculty Diversity Intiatives materials. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Apply Visit Give Departments Ann and H.J. Smead Aerospace Engineering Sciences Chemical &Biological Engineering Civil, Environmental & Architectural Engineering Computer Science Electrical, Computer & Energy Engineering Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering Programs Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Creative Technology & Design Engineering Management Engineering Physics Engineering Plus Environmental Engineering Materials Science &Engineering Affiliates & Partners ATLAS Institute BOLD Center Colorado Mesa University Colorado Space Grant Consortium Discovery Learning Engineering Honors Engineering Leadership Entrepreneurship Herbst Program for Engineering, Ethics & Society Idea Forge Integrated Teaching and Learning Global Engineering Mortenson Center for Global Engineering Western Colorado University Footer menu CareersContact UsAccreditationGive College of Engineering & Applied Science Phone: 303-492-5071Email:cueng@colorado.edu University of Colorado Boulder Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy Legal & Trademarks Campus Map Return to the top of the page
