Multiple Open-Discipline Faculty Positions in Engineering and Applied Science Jobs UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO BOULDER Jobs UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO BOULDER Skip to content Search jobs Living Here Benefits Perks Jobs COVID-19 Updates Join a CU Boulder Talent Community Create Job Alert FAQ Login Join a CU Boulder Talent Community Create Job Alert FAQ Login Home Job Detail Multiple Open-Discipline Faculty Positions in Engineering and Applied Science Requisition Number: 26989 Location: Boulder, Colorado Employment Type: Faculty Schedule: Full-Time Date Posted: 17-Sep-2020 Close All Job Summary As part of our commitment to creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive academic culture in the College of Engineering and Applied Science (CEAS) at the University of Colorado Boulder, we are launching a new college-wide search for multiple tenured/tenure track faculty positions rostered among any/all of the six departments and six interdisciplinary programs in the college. We anticipate hiring at the assistant and associate professor levels, although qualified candidates will be considered at the full professor rank.This search is motivated by the four core values of the colleges strategic vision: accelerate our research impact to produce advances in technology and benefits to society, embrace our public education mission including expanding access and participation of diverse and underrepresented communities in engineering and computer science, increase our global engagement, and enrich our professional environment. The University of Colorado Boulder is committed to building a culturally diverse community of faculty, staff, and students dedicated to contributing to an inclusive campus environment. We are an Equal Opportunity employer, including veterans and individuals with disabilities. Who We Are Founded in 1893, the College of Engineering and Applied Science at the University of Colorado Boulder is the second largest of seven schools and colleges at one of the nation's top public research institutions. As Colorado's flagship university, CU Boulder has selective admissions standards and a comprehensive array of undergraduate and graduate programs.Over the past decade, we have made progress in increasing the diversity of our 5,400 undergraduate student body. This year, our incoming freshman class is 24% students of color and 40% students who identify as women. While these proportions represent an improvement over past years, they still fall short of the proportions in the country, and in Colorado. The profile of the colleges 254 tenured/tenure track faculty, while more diverse than a decade ago, has not kept pace with student diversity. In 2020, 5.2% of our tenure-track faculty identify as Black, Indigenous, or Hispanic/Latinx, and 23% identify as women. We are committed to continuing to make progress in both the near and long-term future. What Your Key Responsibilities Will Be We seek faculty whose teaching, research, and service will: produce engineering solutions for complex state, national, and global challenges; grow our national leadership in engineering education and research; and improve the economic competitiveness, security, and quality of life for all. We assert that a diverse faculty who have equal opportunities to pursue and be recognized for contributions in research, teaching, and service is necessary for achieving our campus diversity plan. Success in this goal will also require faculty who actively work to create an inclusive culture within the college. What You Should Know This search is aimed at prospective faculty whose experience and future plans for teaching, research, and service are aligned with creating a more inclusive academic culture of excellence in engineering and computer science. What We Can Offer We can offer a competitive salary commensurate with experience and rank. Benefits The University of Colorado offers excellentbenefits, including medical, dental, retirement, paid time off, tuition benefit and ECO Pass. The University of Colorado Boulder is one of the largest employers in Boulder County and offers an inspiring higher education environment. Learn more about theUniversity of Colorado Boulder. Be Statements Be Impactful. Be Inclusive. Be Boulder. What We Require Candidates must have an earned Ph.D. or equivalent degree, or expect to have completed their Ph.D. at the time of starting a faculty appointment, in a field appropriate to their tenure home department or program. Special Instructions To apply, please submit the following materials:Resume/CV.A 1-page cover letter describing your interest in the position and summarizing your personal academic goals.Statement of your vision, experience, and future plans to promote a diverse, equitable, and inclusive academic culture (2-4 pages).Statement of your experience and plans for teaching and student mentoring (2-4 pages).Statement of your experience and plans for research and/or creative work that contribute to the body of knowledge in your field and broader benefits to education and society (2-4 pages).Names and contact information for three or more references used for phone reference checks.During the application process you will also need to enter contact information for three references who will be contacted to provide letters of recommendation and additional materials, if needed, as the search progresses.Applications received by November 15, 2020 will receive full consideration.We recognize that faculty play many roles, including promoting excellence in teaching, research, mentoring, and service to the university and the profession. All applicants should note that demonstrated potential for excellence in advancing equity and inclusion will be considered along with potential for excellence in teaching and research. Application materials should reflect a strong interest in that combination of selection criteria. There are some suggestions for preparing application materials at https://www.colorado.edu/engineering/support-faculty-applicantsNote: Application materials will not be accepted via email. For consideration, applications must be submitted through CU Boulder Jobs. Posting Contact Information Posting Contact Name: Clayton Lewis, Search Committee Chair Posting Contact Email: clayton.lewis@colorado.edu Apply Now Share Facebook Twitter Email Help Jobs Submit a Request for Help Frequently Asked Questions For Technical Support: 303-735-4357 (5-HELP) The University of Colorado does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, pregnancy, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation, or political philosophy. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply. Click here for a list of ADA and Title IX coordinators. To view the Regent policy, please click here. This organization participates in E-Verify. We will provide the Social Security Administration and, if necessary, the Department of Homeland Security, with information from each employee's I-9 form to confirm work authorization. Reasonable Accommodations for Applicants with Disabilities CU Boulder is committed to making information and resources that are available via the web accessible for all users. If you are a job seeker and need accessibility assistance or an accommodation in order to apply for one of our open positions, please submit an accessibility request or call 303-735-4357 (5-HELP) to submit a request for assistance. Download theClery Act Annual Security &Fire safety report,orrequest a papercopyfromthe CUBoulderPolice Department. Administrative and Research Center, East Campus 3100 Marine St. Boulder, CO 80309-0565 University of Colorado Boulder Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy Legal & Trademarks Campus Map
