A, Ayonga | People @ Ohio State Engineering Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University College of Engineering People @ Ohio State Engineering Secondary navigation Log in Secondary navigation mobile Log in Breadcrumb Home Ayonga A Assistant Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Scott Laboratory201 W 19th Ave Columbus,OH43210-1142 hereid.1@osu.edu Download CV Research Group Google Scholar ORCID iD GitHub Biography Ayonga Hereid (Yongga A) joined theDepartment of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, the Ohio State University, in 2019 as an assistant professor. He received his Ph.D. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2016 under the supervision of Prof. Aaron Ames. Since January 2017, he has been a postdoctoral research fellow with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, working with Prof. Jessy Grizzle. His research interests lie at the intersection of nonlinear control and optimization theory, with a particular focus on developing elegant and principled control solutions for complex robotic systems, including bipedal robots and exoskeletons. His work was published in the peer-reviewed journal and international conference papers in the area of robotics, nonlinear control, bipedal locomotion, and optimization of the hybrid dynamical system. He was the recipient of the Best Student Paper Award in 2014 from the ACM International Conference on Hybrid System: Computation and Control and was nominated as the Best Conference Paper Award Finalists in 2016 at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation. He also developed FROST, an open-source software package dedicated to fast optimization and simulation of complex robotic systems, such as legged robots, autonomous vehicles, and robot manipulators. Expertise Robotics: exoskeleton and human-assistive devices; bipedal robots and humanoids Control and dynamics: modeling and optimal control design of hybrid dynamical systems Optimization: advanced trajectory optimization of complex systems Machine learning: applications of machine learning algorithms to robust feedback controls People @ Ohio State Engineering Connect Facebook profile Twitter profile YouTube profile LinkedIn profile Flickr profile Copyright 2020 The Ohio State University If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact Engineering Technology Services at etshelp@osu.edu. Privacy Policy Help Log in
