Agarwal, Gunjan | People @ Ohio State Engineering Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University College of Engineering People @ Ohio State Engineering Secondary navigation Log in Secondary navigation mobile Log in Breadcrumb Home Gunjan Agarwal Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering E503 Scott Laboratory201 W 19th Ave Columbus,OH43210-1142 (614) 292-4213 agarwal.60@osu.edu Google Scholar Biography Dr.Agarwal received her BS from the JK Institute of Applied Physics (Allahabad), MS (Physics) from Indian Institute of Technology (Delhi) and her doctoral degree in Biophysics from the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (Mumbai, India). She completed herpost-doctoral training at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine (Bronx, NY) and Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Mason, OH. She was a faculty member in the Department of Biomedical Engineering atOSUfrom 2003-2020, before joining the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Dr. Agarwal is also a faculty mentor in the Biophysics, OSBP and BME graduate programs. Sheteaches courses in Extracellular matrix, Medical Imaging and Microscopy. Expertise Professor Agarwals research focusses on extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling via the collagen receptors discoidin domain receptors (DDRs). We seek to answer fundamental questions pertaining to collagen fibrillogenesis and receptor function at the cell-matrix interface. Our approach encompasses a variety of microscopy techniques to understand the structure and function of the ECM in vascular diseases and bone remodeling. Another parallel vector of our research is to develop novel biomedical applications of atomic force microscopy (AFM). We have developed many aspects of magnetic force microscopy to study nanoparticle behavior and tissue iron deposits in health and disease. Professor Agarwal has also established and directs a multi-user Bio-AFM core facility at OSU. People @ Ohio State Engineering Connect Facebook profile Twitter profile YouTube profile LinkedIn profile Flickr profile Copyright 2020 The Ohio State University If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact Engineering Technology Services at etshelp@osu.edu. Privacy Policy Help Log in
