Aksun Guvenc, Bilin | People @ Ohio State Engineering Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University College of Engineering People @ Ohio State Engineering Secondary navigation Log in Secondary navigation mobile Log in Breadcrumb Home Bilin Aksun Guvenc Research Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Scott Laboratory201 W 19th Ave Columbus,OH43210-1142 aksunguvenc.1@osu.edu Department Web Site Lab Web Site Control of Mechatronic Systems Recent Paper on Trajectory Planning of Autonomous Vehicles Columbus Dispatch Article on Autonomous Driving Biography Prof. Bilin Aksun-Gvenis a research professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the Ohio State University since September 2017. She joined the Ohio State University in September 2014 as a Visiting Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering after working in Istanbul Technical University (17 years) and Istanbul Okan University (3 years). She is the co-founder and co-director of the Automated Driving Lab at the Ohio State University. Her expertise is in automotive control systems such as electronic stability control, adaptive cruise control, cooperative adaptive cruise control, collision warning and avoidance systems, cooperative collision avoidance systems, autonomous vehicles, intelligent transportation systems and smart cities. She has a long history of working as a principal investigator and researcher in several automotive industry projects for major automotive OEMs. She is the co-holder of two European patents on yaw dynamics stability control and yaw rate virtual sensing for road vehicles, respectively. She is a member of the IFAC technical committees on Automotive Control (since 2005) and on Mechatronics (since 2008). She is the author of two book chapters, one book, and one hundred and twenty three publications in technical journals and conferences. Expertise The Automated Driving Lab (ADL) is the main research lab for connected and autonomous driving technologies at the Ohio State University. ADL research application areas are: Connected Vehicle Application Development and Deployment Automated Driving under Adverse Weather Conditions Low Speed Autonomous Driving for a Smart City Platooning, CACC Cooperative Collision Avoidance Pedestrian Collision Avoidance Energy Efficient Connected & Autonomous Vehicles UAV and CAV Communication and Cooperation People @ Ohio State Engineering Connect Facebook profile Twitter profile YouTube profile LinkedIn profile Flickr profile Copyright 2020 The Ohio State University If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact Engineering Technology Services at etshelp@osu.edu. Privacy Policy Help Log in
