College Awards: Faculty and Staff | Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University College of Engineering Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Secondary navigation Resources Search Main navigation About Department Overview Mechanical Engineering Aerospace Engineering Nuclear Engineering Contact Us News In the News Faculty/Student Spotlights Celebrating Black Alumni Publications Courses Upcoming Seminars Events Employment Patents 2020 Honors & Awards Ceremony Undergraduate Accreditation and Student Outcomes Prospective Students Transfer Credit Aerospace Engineering Application to the Major Aerospace Engineering Curriculum Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Mechanical Engineering Application to the Major Mechanical Engineering Curriculum Capstone Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Nuclear Engineering Minor Robotics and Autonomous Systems Minor Undergraduate Academic Advising Undergraduate Course Offerings Undergraduate Student Resources Combined Degree Program Education Abroad Forms and Handbook Graduation MAE Undergraduate Tutoring Preparing for Graduate or Professional School Scholarships and Financial Aid Standards of Academic Performance Student Project Teams and Organizations Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Combined Degree Program Graduate Student Academic Advising Fellowships and Scholarships Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Automotive Specialization Forms and Handbooks Upcoming Seminars Student Project Teams and Organizations Graduate Course Offerings Research Advanced Aerospace Systems Advanced Automotive Systems Bioengineering Design, Materials and Manufacturing Energy and Environmental Quality Micro and Nanotechnology Nuclear Science and Engineering Robotics, Automation and Autonomy Research Labs and Centers Patents Alumni/Friends Giving Back Volunteer Share your successes! Industry Sponsors Department Alumni Award Nominations University Awards: Alumni College Awards: Alumni Department Awards: Alumni Departmental Alumni Award Archives People Faculty and Lecturers Emeritus Facutly Administrative Staff External Advisory Boards Early Career Faculty Awards University Awards: Faculty and Staff College Awards: Faculty and Staff Department Awards: Faculty and Staff Endowed Chairs, Eminent Scholars and Named Professors Academy and Fellow Grade Memberships Main navigation mobile About Department Overview Mechanical Engineering Aerospace Engineering Nuclear Engineering Contact Us News In the News Faculty/Student Spotlights Celebrating Black Alumni Publications Courses Upcoming Seminars Events Employment Patents 2020 Honors & Awards Ceremony Undergraduate Accreditation and Student Outcomes Prospective Students Transfer Credit Aerospace Engineering Application to the Major Aerospace Engineering Curriculum Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Mechanical Engineering Application to the Major Mechanical Engineering Curriculum Capstone Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Nuclear Engineering Minor Robotics and Autonomous Systems Minor Undergraduate Academic Advising Undergraduate Course Offerings Undergraduate Student Resources Combined Degree Program Education Abroad Forms and Handbook Graduation MAE Undergraduate Tutoring Preparing for Graduate or Professional School Scholarships and Financial Aid Standards of Academic Performance Student Project Teams and Organizations Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Combined Degree Program Graduate Student Academic Advising Fellowships and Scholarships Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Automotive Specialization Forms and Handbooks Upcoming Seminars Student Project Teams and Organizations Graduate Course Offerings Research Advanced Aerospace Systems Advanced Automotive Systems Bioengineering Design, Materials and Manufacturing Energy and Environmental Quality Micro and Nanotechnology Nuclear Science and Engineering Robotics, Automation and Autonomy Research Labs and Centers Patents Alumni/Friends Giving Back Volunteer Share your successes! Industry Sponsors Department Alumni Award Nominations University Awards: Alumni College Awards: Alumni Department Awards: Alumni Departmental Alumni Award Archives People Faculty and Lecturers Emeritus Facutly Administrative Staff External Advisory Boards Early Career Faculty Awards University Awards: Faculty and Staff College Awards: Faculty and Staff Department Awards: Faculty and Staff Endowed Chairs, Eminent Scholars and Named Professors Academy and Fellow Grade Memberships Secondary navigation mobile Resources Breadcrumb Home College Awards: Faculty and Staff Below is a listing of faculty and staff awards bestowed by The Ohio State University College of Engineering. The most recent awardee(s) from thedepartment are listed below, with links to archived lists ofawardees. Charles E. MacQuigg Award for Outstanding Teaching The Charles Ellison MacQuigg Award for Outstanding Teaching is named for the late dean of the College of Engineering. The award is presented annually to faculty members who have demonstrated, in a superior manner, their interest in and willingness to help students, their interest in improvement of the high reputation of the College of Engineeringand their outstanding teaching ability. 2013: Lisa M. Abrams, Satya Seetharaman Archive David C. McCarthy Engineering Teaching Award The David C. McCarthy Engineering Teaching Award was established in 2007 in honor of David McCarthy, retired senior director of development in the College of Engineering. The McCarthy Award recognizes the contributions of College of Engineering junior faculty and staff to create more innovative and effective teaching and learning. 2019: Annie Abell 2014: Sandip Mazumder Archive Dean's Award for Outstanding Teaching by a Lecturer The Dean's Award for Outstanding Teaching by a Lecturer was established in 2015. The award is presented each year to an individual lecturer, senior lecturer or other auxiliary faculty member who has demonstrated excellence in their teaching within the College of Engineering. 2019: Satya Seetharaman Archive Faculty Diversity Excellence Award The Faculty Diversity Excellence Award for the College of Engineering was established in 2007. The award is presented each year to an individual faculty member or team of faculty for actions and accomplishments that support the colleges priority goal of achieving excellence through diversity and creating an environment and organizational culture in which all individuals are accepted, respected and valued. 2014: Rebecca Dupaix Archive Harrison Faculty Award for Excellence in Engineering Education The award will be presented to a member of the college faculty in engineering or architecture who is in the early or mid-part of his or her career (within 15 years of receiving his/her Ph.D. or other terminal degree) and who has distinguished himself or herself through a contribution to the College of Engineering or society. Faculty members who received their Ph.D. or other terminal degree during or before 1998 are not eligible. The award will be based on excellence in teaching and the qualitative aspects of teaching; exceptional fundamental or applied research (either in scope or originality) in one or more areas of endeavor ordinarily carried out in the College of Engineering; or a single or unique contribution to engineering or architectural concepts, which is responsive to or has an impact on society as a whole. As a general rule, the award will be made to an individual (except under unique circumstances in any year that suggest a team should receive the award). 2015: Junmin Wang Archive Honda-OSU Partnership Award The Honda-OSU Partnership Award is presented to an individual who has made significant contributions towards promoting and strengthening the Honda-OSU Partnership, in areas of education, research and outreach as related to the transportation field. 2016: Shawn Midlam-Mohler Archive Innovators Award The Innovators Award for the College of Engineering was established by the Engineering Experiment Station in 2007. The award is presented each year to an individual or team of faculty and/or research scientists who best demonstrate innovation in the development of a product and/or technology originating from the Ohio State research enterprise. Innovation is defined as the act, process or product that creates a new dimension of performance. This award recognizes the achievements of an individual or team whose innovation has successfully translated the research emanating from our laboratories into new products and/or technologies that can be used by the public at large. 2017: Bharat Bhushan 2010: Joseph Heremans Archive Lumley Interdisciplinary Research Award The College of Engineering recognizes the interdisciplinary research contributions of faculty and research staff by awarding the Lumley Interdisciplinary Research Award. The award(s) are presentedto a team of faculty and/or research scientists who have demonstrated significant research collaboration that cuts across departmental or discipline boundaries. 2019:Joseph Heremans 2018: Jen-Ping Chen, Haijun Su,Junmin Wang 2016: Raymond Cao Archive Lumley Research Award The College of Engineering will recognize the research contributions and productivity over the last five years of faculty and research scientists. 2019: David Hoelzle, Randall Mathison 2018: Soheil Soghrati, Vishnu Sundaresan 2017: Carlos Castro, Sandip Mazumder 2016: Marcello Canova, Shaurya Prakash Archive The Clara M. and Peter L. Scott Faculty Award for Excellence in Engineering Education The award is made to a senior professor in engineering or architecture in the College of Engineeringwho has distinguished himself or herself nationally or internationally. The award is based on excellence in teaching and the qualitative aspects of teaching with emphasis on effective innovationand for outstanding fundamental or applied research contributions (in scope and/or originality) in one or more areas of endeavor. The award is presented to an individual and may be awarded only once in a faculty member's career. Under unique circumstances, a team may be nominated for and receive the award. 2017: Giorgio Rizzoni 2016: Bharat Bhushan Archive The Ralph L. Boyer Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Engineering Innovation The award is presented to a faculty team or to an individual faculty member in the College of Engineering who has made outstanding contributions to the improvement of undergraduate engineering education. The award is meant to recognize the demonstrated impact of innovation in the education process, including the design, development and application of new pedagogy, teaching tools (e.g., multi-media), and assessment methodologies on the overall quality of the undergraduate engineering education process/experience at Ohio State. Selection will favor faculty whose contributions have made important, pervasive improvements in the engineering education process with a significant potential for long term impact. 2016: Jeffrey Bons Archive Exemplary Service to Students Award Provides recognition to staff members for superior service to students at department or college level. 2015: Joseph West 2014: Nicklaus Breckenridge Archive Exemplary Team Performance Award Provides recognition to a team for superior performance or service to departments, centers, or the college. 2016: Chad Bivens and Kevin Wolf Archive Department ofMechanical and Aerospace Engineering 201 W. 19th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210 614-292-2289 Phone maewebadmin@osu.edu Quick Links Directory News Events Courses Connect Facebook profile Twitter profile LinkedIn profile YouTube profile Copyright 2020 The Ohio State University Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Help Log in
