Atkinson, Chris | Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University College of Engineering Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Secondary navigation Resources Search Main navigation About Department Overview Mechanical Engineering Aerospace Engineering Nuclear Engineering Contact Us News In the News Faculty/Student Spotlights Celebrating Black Alumni Publications Courses Upcoming Seminars Events Employment Patents 2020 Honors & Awards Ceremony Undergraduate Accreditation and Student Outcomes Prospective Students Transfer Credit Aerospace Engineering Application to the Major Aerospace Engineering Curriculum Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Mechanical Engineering Application to the Major Mechanical Engineering Curriculum Capstone Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Nuclear Engineering Minor Robotics and Autonomous Systems Minor Undergraduate Academic Advising Undergraduate Course Offerings Undergraduate Student Resources Combined Degree Program Education Abroad Forms and Handbook Graduation MAE Undergraduate Tutoring Preparing for Graduate or Professional School Scholarships and Financial Aid Standards of Academic Performance Student Project Teams and Organizations Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Combined Degree Program Graduate Student Academic Advising Fellowships and Scholarships Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Automotive Specialization Forms and Handbooks Upcoming Seminars Student Project Teams and Organizations Graduate Course Offerings Research Advanced Aerospace Systems Advanced Automotive Systems Bioengineering Design, Materials and Manufacturing Energy and Environmental Quality Micro and Nanotechnology Nuclear Science and Engineering Robotics, Automation and Autonomy Research Labs and Centers Patents Alumni/Friends Giving Back Volunteer Share your successes! Industry Sponsors Department Alumni Award Nominations University Awards: Alumni College Awards: Alumni Department Awards: Alumni Departmental Alumni Award Archives People Faculty and Lecturers Emeritus Facutly Administrative Staff External Advisory Boards Early Career Faculty Awards University Awards: Faculty and Staff College Awards: Faculty and Staff Department Awards: Faculty and Staff Endowed Chairs, Eminent Scholars and Named Professors Academy and Fellow Grade Memberships Main navigation mobile About Department Overview Mechanical Engineering Aerospace Engineering Nuclear Engineering Contact Us News In the News Faculty/Student Spotlights Celebrating Black Alumni Publications Courses Upcoming Seminars Events Employment Patents 2020 Honors & Awards Ceremony Undergraduate Accreditation and Student Outcomes Prospective Students Transfer Credit Aerospace Engineering Application to the Major Aerospace Engineering Curriculum Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Mechanical Engineering Application to the Major Mechanical Engineering Curriculum Capstone Technical Elective Program Research Distinction Technical Elective Program Nuclear Engineering Minor Robotics and Autonomous Systems Minor Undergraduate Academic Advising Undergraduate Course Offerings Undergraduate Student Resources Combined Degree Program Education Abroad Forms and Handbook Graduation MAE Undergraduate Tutoring Preparing for Graduate or Professional School Scholarships and Financial Aid Standards of Academic Performance Student Project Teams and Organizations Undergraduate Research Graduate Admissions Combined Degree Program Graduate Student Academic Advising Fellowships and Scholarships Aerospace Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Engineering Automotive Specialization Forms and Handbooks Upcoming Seminars Student Project Teams and Organizations Graduate Course Offerings Research Advanced Aerospace Systems Advanced Automotive Systems Bioengineering Design, Materials and Manufacturing Energy and Environmental Quality Micro and Nanotechnology Nuclear Science and Engineering Robotics, Automation and Autonomy Research Labs and Centers Patents Alumni/Friends Giving Back Volunteer Share your successes! Industry Sponsors Department Alumni Award Nominations University Awards: Alumni College Awards: Alumni Department Awards: Alumni Departmental Alumni Award Archives People Faculty and Lecturers Emeritus Facutly Administrative Staff External Advisory Boards Early Career Faculty Awards University Awards: Faculty and Staff College Awards: Faculty and Staff Department Awards: Faculty and Staff Endowed Chairs, Eminent Scholars and Named Professors Academy and Fellow Grade Memberships Secondary navigation mobile Resources Breadcrumb Home Chris Atkinson Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Scott Laboratory201 W 19th Ave Columbus,OH43210-1142 atkinson.284@osu.edu Download CV Department Website Biography Dr. Chris Atkinson is currently the Director of the Smart Mobility Initiative and professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at Ohio State University. From 2014 to 2020 he served as Program Director at the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) of the US Department of Energy. At ARPA-E he initiated and managed external research and development projects in the advanced clean energy area totaling over $120 million, including NEXTCAR, a program using connectivity and automation toimprove vehicle energy efficiency. He is the founder of Atkinson LLC, a consultancy in advanced engine and vehicle technology. From 2009 to 2011 he was the Director of the West Virginia University Center for Alternative Fuels, Engines and Emissions, in addition to holding the rank of tenured professor in mechanical and aerospace engineering. He has authored over 70 peer-reviewed publications (with over 2200 citations) and holds two US and international patents. He received the Lewis F. Moody Award from the ASME in 1992, in addition to being a Fellow of ASME, and a Fellow of SAE. Articles about Dr. Atkinson Scholar-Entrepreneur Tapped to Direct Ohio State's Smart Mobility Program Expertise Research Interests: Smart mobility. Advanced mobility, transportation and vehicle technologies. Vehicle automation, vehicle connectivity. Engine control, calibration and optimization. Model-based systems. Machine learning, AI, and artificial neural networks. Data-driven modeling for control. Diesel exhaust emissions reduction. Fuel efficiency improvement and GHG reduction in vehicles. Alternative fuel and NG utilization. Hybrid electric vehicle development. High-efficiency HVAC technologies. Technology assessment, technical due diligence, innovation, research and development, entrepreneurship, and commercialization in advanced clean and sustainable energy technologies. Development and deployment of low GHG energy technologies. Department ofMechanical and Aerospace Engineering 201 W. 19th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210 614-292-2289 Phone maewebadmin@osu.edu Quick Links Directory News Events Courses Connect Facebook profile Twitter profile LinkedIn profile YouTube profile Copyright 2020 The Ohio State University Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Help Log in
