Aldemir, Tunc | People @ Ohio State Engineering Skip to main content Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University College of Engineering People @ Ohio State Engineering Secondary navigation Log in Secondary navigation mobile Log in Breadcrumb Home Tunc Aldemir Professor, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering E427 Scott Laboratory201 W 19th Ave Columbus,OH43210-1142 (614) 292-4627 aldemir.1@osu.edu Biography Tunc Aldemir received his PhD in nuclear engineering from the University of Illinois and has been with The Ohio State University (OSU) since 1983. He served as the Chair of the OSUNuclear Engineering Program at between 2007 - 2016. He isa Fellow of the American Nuclear Society anda recipient of the OSUCollege of Engineering Lumley Interdisciplinary Research Award in 2015 and 2020. Tunc Aldemirhas beena member of theeditorial board of the journalReliability Engineering and System Safety since 2004 and hasserved as an International Atomic Energy Agency expert to various countries on research reactor safety. Expertise Tunc Aldemir's broad area of specialization is nuclear reactor safety, with emphasis on reliability and probabilistic risk assessment (PRA). His research in PRA focuses on systems which may be difficult to model using conventional techniques, such as those with significant hardware/software/human/process interactions, passive components and/or relying on natural phenomena for safety. He haspublished more than 250 refereed articles on various deterministic and probabilisticaspects of nuclear reactor safety. His research efforts have been funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Idaho National Laboratory, Sandia National Laboratories, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration. People @ Ohio State Engineering Connect Facebook profile Twitter profile YouTube profile LinkedIn profile Flickr profile Copyright 2020 The Ohio State University If you have a disability and experience difficulty accessing this content, contact Engineering Technology Services at etshelp@osu.edu. Privacy Policy Help Log in
