Harold Brandon | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute Academics Communication Center Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Women & Engineering Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News Zhang, team work to keep cyberphysical systems secure, predictable 09.21.2020 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions Home Faculty Harold Brandon Harold Brandon Professor of Practice Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Phone314-935-8480 OfficeUrbauer Hall, Room 307A hjb@wustl.edu Education DSc, Washington University in St. Louis, 1969MS, St. Louis University, 1965BS, St. Louis University, 1963 Biography Harold Brandons current academic interests are in building science, energy, the thermal sciences, plastic surgery, heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning components and systems. He has accumulated over fifty years of industrial and academic experience as a test engineer, senior research engineer, technical specialist, program manager, chief engineer, director of research and development, consultant, and college professor.His industrial experience has primarily been in the following industries: aircraft, gas turbine, aerospace, solar energy, energy conservation, brewing, soft drink, HVAC, and medicine. He has been the Principal Investigator or Program Manager on contracts and grants with NASA, the Air Force, the Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, the Aesthetic Surgery Educational Research Foundation, and many industrial firms. Brandon's academic experience has been in mechanical engineering and plastic surgery research. He has been a faculty member at Washington University since 1979 and is presently the Director of the Masters Program in Energy Conversion and Efficiency, and former Director of the Heat Transfer Lab. He held a joint appointment in the Department of Plastic Surgery at Washington University from 1994 to 2009 where he conducted research and was the Director/Co-Director of The Center for Implant Retrieval and Analysis. He is the author or co-author of over a hundred published papers and abstracts. He holds patents in the fields of combustion and fluid mechanics and has a patent pending for a new testing technique for evaluating breast implants. Brandon was the recipient of the Presidential Award from the Master Brewers Association of the Americas in 1982 and 1983, and the Best Paper Award from the Society of Soft Drink Technologists in 1984. In 2005 he was selected by the Canadian government to be the only non-Canadian to serve as a member of Health Canadas Expert Advisory Panel on Breast Implants, specializing in material characterization and failure analysis. Professor Brandon was selected as the Chairman of the Symposium on Biomaterials in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at the World Biomaterials Congress in 2000 (Hawaii), 2004 (Sydney), and 2008 (Amsterdam). In 2012 he was one of two U.S. researchers chosen by the European Commission to serve on a scientific committee to evaluate fraudulently manufactured silicone gel breast implants made by the French company PIP. He has been a consultant for many industrial firms, including Allergan Medical, Barry-Wehmiller, Chrysler, Coca Cola, Dow Corning, Enerfab, Evera Medical, G. Heileman Brewing Company, Geo. J. Meyer Manufacturing, Ideal Implant Inc., Inamed, Mentor Corporation, Monsanto, Permea Inc., Sientra, TheraNova, and the Canadian Government (Health Canada and Justice Canada). He has been an expert witness/consultant for litigation, including patent infringement cases. He is a registered Professional Engineer and a member of the U.S. Triathlon Association. Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute Technology & Leadership Center Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering Campus Box 1100 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Phone: 314-935-6100 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2020 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
