Gabriel Hugh Elkaim | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links Gabriel Hugh Elkaim E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Title Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Undergraduate Director (Robotics) Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-3054 Office Location Engineering 2, Room 337B Office Hours By appointment Mail Stop SOE2 Biography I was born in Sousse, Tunisia. I spent a fair bit of my childhood moving around from place to place, as my father was a civil engineer working on infrastructure projects of various sorts around the world. I spent six years in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, where I went to high school. My undergraduate degree is from Princeton University, in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Following Princeton, I went to work for an international oilfield services company: Schlumberger. I spent a year in Algeria, and another in Nigeria before leaving Schlumberger. From there I went to Israel, where I spent a year studying Aeronautics at the Technion in Haifa. After my return from Israel, I started at Stanford University, in the Aeronautics and Astronautics department. I received both my Masters and Ph.D. from Stanford, where I built an autonomous catamaran for my thesis. The catamaran was based on a modified Prindle-19, with the mast removed and replaced by a freely rotating wingsail. After graduation, I spent a year in Los Angeles consulting on an autonomous ground vehicle project. I joined the Computer Engineering Faculty at UC Santa Cruz in 2003, with a research focus on autonomous and embedded systems. I started the Autonomous Systems Lab, and have a number of graduate and undergraduate students working with me on a variety of research projects. My favorite (and most popular) class to teach is CMPE118, Introduction to Mechatronics, where teams of students build a robot in 10 weeks. I recently returned from sabbatical in Lisbon, Portugal, where I was working at ISR/IST. I am married, with a son and another on the way. My wife and I enjoy living near the Ocean on the West Side of Santa Cruz, chasing after our 2 year old son, and are expecting his baby brother this summer. Research Areas Embedded systems; robust software architectures for real-time reactive systems; sensor fusion; guidance, navigation, and control (GNC) system identification; robust and advanced control schemes; feedback and control systems; robotics; unmanned autonomous vehicles (UAVs); cooperative control Web Page Autonomous Systems Lab Slugs UAV Project Selected Publications Personal Publication List Archive of Autonomous Systems Lab Publications Degree Ph.D in Aeronautics and Astronautics, 2002, Stanford University MSE in Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1995, Stanford University BSE in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, 1990, Princeton University Students Carlos Isaac Espinosa Ramirez (Graduate) Jeremy Gottlieb (Alumni) Umair Ibrahim (Graduate) Jordan Liss (Alumni) Dr. Sharon Rabinovich (Alumni) Christopher S Seruge (Graduate) Sargis S Yonan (Alumni) Alumni Jeremy Gottlieb (Alumni) Jordan Liss (Alumni) Dr. Sharon Rabinovich (Alumni) Dmitriy Rivkin (Alumni) Sargis S Yonan (Alumni) Are you Gabriel Hugh Elkaim? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
