Zouheir Rezki | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links Zouheir Rezki E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Title Assistant Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-1073 Office Location Engineering 2, Room 245A Labs: Engineering 2, Room 246 Mail Stop SOE2 Biography Zouheir Reikis research covers a wide range of topics in wireless communications and networking including security and privacy of data networks, applying machine-learning techniques to design and optimize modern communication systems, information theory, optical communication, and application of communication as an enabling technology for smart grids. Dr. Rezkis honors include Runner-up for the Best Ph.D. Thesis in the ECE Department at Polytechnique in 2008, the Best Paper Award at the 2008 Personal Indoor Mobile Radio Communication (PIMRC2008), The Fonds Qubcois de la recherche sur la nature et les technologies Postdoctoral Research Fellowship in 2009, the NSF CAREER Award in 2020. He is an IEEE Senior Member since 2013 and served as an Editor of IEEE Wireless Communications Letters (2014 - 2017). Research Areas Wireless Communications and Networking Security and Privacy of Data Networks Information Theory Applying Machine-Learning techniques to design and optimize Communication Systems Optical Communications Communication as an Enabling Technology for Smart Grids Web Page Personal Google Scholar ResearchGate Wireless Communication and Networking lab. Projects 2020, NSF CAREER: Advancing Space Optical Communication Systems Via Hybrid Model-Based and Learning-Based Frameworks Selected Publications Results on the Rate-Equivocation Region of the Degraded Signal-Dependent Noise Wiretap Channel, IEEE Communications Letters, 2020. Securing Multi-User Broadcast Wiretap Channels with Finite CSI Feedback, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2020. Optical Wiretap Channel with Input-Dependent Gaussian Noise and Amplitude Constraint, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2018. Reliability Enhancement of Smart Metering System Using Millimeter Wave Technology, IEEE Transactions on Communications, 2018. Automatic Modulation Classification Using Moments and Likelihood Maximization, IEEE Communications Letters, 2018. Degree Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering, 2008, University of Montreal - Polytechnique Engineering School Students Xinyi Wu (Graduate) Are you Zouheir Rezki? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
