Yu Zhang | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links Yu Zhang E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Please Enable JavaScript Title Assistant Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-2921 (Office) Office Location Engineering 2, Room 547B Mail Stop SOE2 Biography Yu Zhang is an Assistant Professor in the ECE Department of UC Santa Cruz. Prior to joining UCSC, he was a postdoc at UC Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. He received the Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Minnesota. Dr. Zhang's research interests span the broad areas of cyber-physical systems, smart power grids, optimization theory, machine learning and big data analytics. Research Areas Smart grids, cyber-physical systems, machine learning, big data analytics, optimization, operations research, wireless communications, and signal processing. Web Page Homepage Google scholar Selected Publications Conic Relaxations for Power System State Estimation with Line Measurements Distributed Stochastic Market Clearing with High-Penetration Wind Power Robust Workload and Energy Management for Sustainable Data Centers Electricity Market Forecasting via Low-Rank Multi-Kernel Learning Robust Energy Management for Microgrids With High-Penetration Renewables Degree Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Minnesota -- Twin Cities M.Sc. in Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University B.Eng. in Electrical Engineering, Wuhan University of Technology Are you Yu Zhang? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
