Yihsu Chen | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links Yihsu Chen E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Title Professor, Technology Management in Sustainability, Electrical and Computer Engineering Interim Undergraduate Director, ECE Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 831-502-7184 Office Location Engineering 2, Room 549B Mail Stop SOE3 Biography Yihsu Chen is a professor in Technology Management in Sustainability at Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California Santa Cruz. Prior to joining UCSC, he held a faculty position at University of California Merced with a joint appointment with School of Engineering and School of Social Sciences, Humanities and Arts. He is also affiliated with UCE3 (University of California Center for Energy and Environmental Economics). Professor Chen's main research focuses on studying the impact of public policies on energy, water resources and transportation sectors. His research takes interdisciplinary approaches: quantitative models built upon economic principles and solved with operations research techniques. His work has received a number of INFORMS ENRE awards: 2004 best student paper (first place), 2013 and 2014 best publication in sustainability in second place and first place, respectively. Professor Chen's work typically is policy relevant. In particular, his work on emission trading policies has received considerable attention and also directly contributed to policy debates. For example, his early work with Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands (ECN) on the European ETS (Emission Trading Scheme) windfall profits led to the European Commission auction off emission allowances in the second phase of the ETS. The work has received 700 Google citations. His work on the equivalence of emission trading programs with different point-of-regulation also partly helped the California Air Resources Board finalize their decisions in implementing first-sellers approach to control greenhouse gas emissions associated with imported power. His other work includes life-cycle analysis of biofuel production and air pollution impact of public transit system, evaluation of ecosystem services, and etc. Professor Chen is also an associate editor of IEEE Transactions on Power Systems (2013 --2019) and ASCE Journal of Energy Engineering (2013 -- present) as well as on the international advisory board of Energy Policy (2017--present). He has co-edited a few special issues in Journal of Energy Engineering (2010), IEEE Transactions on Power System. He served as the newsletter editor of INFORMS ENRE during 2010-2013. Full publication can be found at https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9990-8232 Research Areas Economics and policy in energy, water resources and transportation sectors Web Page Energy Sustainability Policy and Natural Resource (ESPN) Projects Sustainability-aware Management of Inter- dependent Power and Water Systems (NSF) Investigating Climate-change-induced Vulnerability of the California Northern Natural Gas Energy System and Identifying Resilience Options (CEC) CRISP 2.0 Type 1: Collaborative Research: Distributed Edge Computing to Improve Resilience of Interdependent Systems (NSF) Selected Publications Chen, Y., B. F. Hobbs, H. Ellis, C. Crowley and F. Jutz, (2015), "Impacts of Climate Change on Power Sector NOx Emissions: A Long-Run Analysis of the US Mid-Atlantic Region," Energy Policy, 84: 11-21 Bushnell, J. and Y. Chen (2012), "Allocation and Leakage in Cap-and-Trade Markets for CO2," Resources and Energy Economics, 34(3): 647-668. Tsao, C.-C., J.E. Campbell, M. Mena-Carrasco, S.N. Spak, S.N, and G.R. Carmichael and Y. Chen (2012), "Increased Estimates of Air-Pollution Emissions from Brazilian Sugar-cane Ethanol," Nature: Climate Change, 2(1): 53-57. Chen, Y. and A. Whalley (2012), "Green Infrastructures? The Effects of Urban Mass Transit on Air Quality," American Economics Journal: Economic Policy, 4(1): 58-97. Chen, Y., A. L. Liu and B. F. Hobbs (2011), "Economic and Emissions Implications of Load-based, Source-based and First-seller Emissions Trading Programs under California AB32," Operations Research, 59(3): 696-712. Degree Ph.D. in Geography and Environmental Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, USA M.S. in Environmental Health, Harvard University, USA B.S. in Environmental Engineering and Science, Tunghai University, Taiwan Are you Yihsu Chen? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
