Patrick Mantey | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links Patrick Mantey E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Please Enable JavaScript Title Jack Baskin Professor of Computer Engineering Emeritus Founding Dean, Baskin School of Engineering Professor Emeritus / Recall Research Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Director Senior Design Capstone Resilient and Renewable Electrical Energy Systems Laboratory Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-2720 Office Location Engineering 2, Room 573 Office Hours Wednesday 2-4 PM and by appointment Mail Stop SOE2 Biography Professor Emeritus Patrick E. Mantey joined the UCSC faculty in 1984 to start the engineering programs. He came from industry where he was a senior manager in Computer Science at the IBM Almaden Research Center. His extensive computer industry experience, especially in the design of computer systems for a variety of applications in government and industry, has influenced his research and professional activities. He taught at Stanford University in Electrical Engineering before and during his IBM employment. He is the founding Dean of the Jack Baskin School of Engineering. He is one of the founders of CITRIS, and served as its director until stepping down in 2018. He also served as the director of the Information Technologies Institute, with major funding from Cisco and other industry sponsors. He is affiliated with the Cyber Physical Systems Research Center, CenSEPS, and UC-Solar. Professor Mantey is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and a member of American Society for Engineering Education, Tau Beta Pi and Sigma Xi. He received his B.S. (magna cum laude) from the University of Notre Dame, his M.S. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and his Ph.D. (with an NSF Fellowship) from Stanford University, all in electrical engineering. Professor Emeritus Mantey continues his affiliation with Electrical and Computer Engineering as a Recalled Research Professor and Director of Senior Design Capstone. Research Areas Digital signal processing, control and automation Sensor systems, internet of things, cyber physical systems Electric distribution grids and micro-grids, power distribution resiliency, energy management, demand response Decision support/recommender systems for real-time operations, management of renewable energy, storage and consumption in micro grids Home activity monitoring Geographic information systems in real-time resource allocation Information system architecture and performance, networking QoS, storage and multimedia streaming Technology for teaching / tutoring / classrooms Engineering management Web Page Pat Mantey's Home Page Projects Resilient and Renewable Electrical Energy Systems (RREES) Staff Nathaniel Tjandra Stacy Wilson Are you Patrick Mantey? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
