Michael S. Isaacson | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links Michael S. Isaacson E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Please Enable JavaScript Title Narinder Singh Kapany Professor Emeritus, Electrical and Computer Engineering Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 607-283-3133 Office Location 1500 41st Avenue Suite 220 Capitola, California 95010 Office Hours by appointment Mail Stop SOE2 Biography Michael Isaacson is the Narinder Singh Kapany Professor emeritus of electrical engineering at UCSC. He is recipient of numerous awards for fundamental achievements in microscopy including a Sloan Foundation Faculty Fellowship, the Burton Medal from the Microscopy Society of America (MSA), an Alexander von Humboldt Senior Scientist Award, the Rank Prize in Optoelectronics and the Distinguished Scientist Award from the MSA. He is a Fellow of the AAAS and the MSA. Professor Isaacson has a B.S. in Engineering Physics (highest honors) from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and an M.S. and PhD in physics from the University of Chicago. He has been on the physics faculty of the University of Chicago and the Faculty of Applied and Engineering Physics at Cornell University where he taught a course on microcharacterization of materials for over a decade. Research Areas nanofabrication technology electron and ion optics novel electron and optical microscopy systems renewable energy systems nanomaterial characterization STEM education Web Page Mike Isaacson Projects Book: Microscopic Nanocharacterization of Materials. Cambridge University Press Chapter: Early History of the STEM. in Advances in Electron and Imaging Physics. Volume 212. Elsevier. Selected Publications M.S. Isaacson and A. Chialastri. Performance and Optimization of BIPV/T Solar Air Collector. Energy and Buildings. 150.200-210.(Sept.2017) S.W. Leow, C. Corrado, M. Osborn, M. Isaacson, G. Alers and S. Carter. Analyzing Luminescent Solar Concentrators with Front-facing Photovoltaic Cells using Weighted Monte Carlo Ray Tracing. J.Appl. Phys.113, 214510 (2013) S.T.Retterer, K.L.Smith, C.S.Bjornsson, J.N.Turner, M.S.Isaacson and W.Shain, Constant Pressure Fluid Infusion into Rat Neocortex from Implantable Microfluidic Devices. J. Neural Eng.5, 385-396. (2008) M.S.Isaacson. Model Neural Prosthesis with Integrated Microfluidics: A Potential Intervention Strategy for Controlling Reactive Cell and Tissue Responses, IEEE Trans. on Biomedical Engineering. 51(11), 2063-2073 (2004 M. Isaacson, D. Kopf, M. Utlaut, N.W. Parker and A.V. Crewe, "Direct Observations of Atomic Diffusion Using the Scanning Transmission Electron Microscope", Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 74, 1802 (1977). Degree Ph.D. in Physics, 1971, University of Chicago M.S. in Physics, 1966, University of Chicago B.S. in Engineering Physics (highest honors) 1965.University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign Are you Michael S. Isaacson? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
