A. Ali Yanik | Jack Baskin School of Engineering Skip to main content Stay Informed:Baskin Engineering COVID-19 Information and ResourcesCampus Roadmap to RecoveryZoom Links: Zoom Help | Teaching with Zoom | Zoom Quick Guide Jack Baskin School of Engineering Technology for a Changing World Navigation Home About Us Academics Departments Degree Programs People Research Quick Links A. Ali Yanik E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript Title Assist. Professor, Electrical & Computer Engineering Department Electrical and Computer Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-3491 Office Location Baskin Engineering, Room 257C Office Hours With Appointment Mail Stop SOE2 Biography Ali A. Yanik is an Assistant Prof. in the Baskin School of Engineering at University of California, Santa Cruz. His current research focuses on Circulating Tumor Cell (CTC) detection from human blood using nano-fluidic platforms for cancer diagnostics. His research interests includes nanoplasmonic and metamaterial devices for ultrasensitive infrared/terahertz spectroscopy of biomolecules/chemicals and high-throughput, cost effective, BioNEMS technologies for life sciences and point-of-care diagnostics. His expertise is in high-end nanolithography and bio-patterning as well as theory and engineering of nanophotonic devices. He received his Ph.D. degree in applied theoretical physics from Purdue University, under the supervision of Prof. Supriyo Datta. During his PhD, he studied spin dependent electron transport in low dimensional molecular/nano-electronic devices and introduced one of the most advanced quantum transport models (spin-NEGF) that exists today. Before joining to UCSC, he was a senior research associate at The Center for Engineering in Medicine & BioMEMS Resources Center (PI: Prof. Mehmet Toner) at Harvard University Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital. He was also instrumental in the establishment of The Laboratory of Integrated Nanophotonics and Biosensing Systems at The Boston University Photonics Center, as a postdoctoral fellow and research associate. He has authored/co-authored more than 80 journal and conference publications and holds multiple patents and disclosures, some of which are licensed to commercial partners. Research Areas Nanoplasmonics and metamaterials; lab-on-chip systems: optofluidic bionems, nanofluidics and label free biosensors; nanospectroscopy: plasmonic nanoantennas and single molecule vibrational dynamics; rare cell isolation and single cell analysis Web Page UCSC Nano-Engineering Group Google Scholar LinkedIn SPIE Degree Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard Medical School (2011-2013) Postdoctoral Fellow, The Boston University Photonics Center (2007-2011) Ph.D. in Theoretical Physics, 2007, Purdue University Students Evan Tobias Peterson (Alumni) Alumni Evan Tobias Peterson (Alumni) Are you A. Ali Yanik? If so, you can update your directory information. UCSC This site is maintained by: webmaster@soe.ucsc.eduUC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064Copyright 2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Log In
