MIT School of Engineering | Kate E. Galloway Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty>>Kate E. Galloway Faculty Browse All faculty Kate E. Galloway Kate E. Galloway joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in 2019. She received her B.S. in Chemical Engineering from UC Berkeley in 2005, and received her M.S. in Chemical Engineering in 2007, and Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering with a Minor in Biology in 2012, each from the California Institute of Technology. She won the NIH Ruth Kirchstein Postdoctoral Research Fellowship and completed her postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Southern California with Justin Ichida from 2013. Her research interests include Synthetic Biology, Molecular Systems Biology, Stem Cells, Cellular Reprogramming, 3D Genome Organization & Structure, Single-cell Analytics, Genetic Control Systems, Oncogenesis & Metastasis and Epigenetics. As a chemical engineer specializing in molecular systems biology, her ultimate goal is to leverage synthetic biology principles to transform how we understand cellular transitions and engineer cellular therapies. Her work is focused on designing and constructing integrated synthetic circuits to probe and actuate changes in DNA topology that drive changes in cell fate. MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
