MIT School of Engineering | Faculty & Research Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty New Faculty (2020) New Faculty (2019) New Faculty (2018) New Faculty (2017) Faculty Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Openings Research The particles in our collider are people. At MIT, its all about teamwork. By almost every measure patents, publications, students, startups, etc. our engineering faculty is one of the most productive collectives on the planet. And none of them works alone. Most engineering campuses are like Legos: disciplines live in buildings that snap together around common projects. Researchers from one area rarely bump into those from other fields they dont trade war stories from the lab, talk about their research while waiting in line for coffee, or question each other at random times of the day or night. Our campus was designed and built for a single, shared purpose: to connect people and their ideas with one, central, infinite corridor that connects dense pockets of excellence and surprise together. MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
