MIT School of Engineering | Jonathan Ragan-Kelley Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty>>Jonathan Ragan-Kelley Faculty Browse All faculty Jonathan Ragan-Kelley Jonathan Ragan-Kelley joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in January 2020. He received a Ph.D. and an S.M. in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT, and a B.S. in computer science from Stanford University. His research focuses on computer graphics, compilers, domain-specific languages, and high-performance systems. Among other honors, he has received research highlights in the Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery (CACM) journal, an Intel Foundation Pd.D. Fellowship, an NVIDIA Graduate Fellowship, an NSF Fellowship, and MITs William A. Martin Award for Best Masters Thesis in Computer Science. He is a former assistant professor at the University of California at Berkeley and has taught at Stanford and MIT. He was a postdoc at Stanford, and has been a researcher, intern, or consultant for Google, Adobe, and Intel, among others. MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
