MIT School of Engineering | New Faculty (2020) Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty & Research>>New Faculty (2020) New Faculty (2020) Faculty & Research Faculty New Faculty (2020) New Faculty (2019) New Faculty (2018) New Faculty (2017) Faculty Awards Teaching Awards Faculty Openings Research Faez Ahmed joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering as an assistant professor in July 2020. He received his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland, College Park in 2019. His interests are in studying principled methods for representation, learning, and optimization of discrete problems occurring in design. Faez works at the intersection of Machine Learning, Engineering Design, and Human-Computer Interaction to enable globally distributed teams of designers to participate in the design process. Prior to his Ph.D., he worked as a Reliability Engineer for Rio Tinto in Western Australia. He was a Future Faculty Fellow at the University of Maryland and recipient of the Kulkarni Fellowship. He is also the lead organizer of ACM New York and has ongoing collaborations with other non-profits to educate the local community about computing and data science. He is a former Postdoctoral Fellow at the IDEAL Lab at Northwestern University. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/3-Ahmed-Faez.jpeg Website Faez Ahmed Mechanical Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/faez-ahmed/ Josephine Carstensenjoined the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering as an assistant professor in September 2019. She earned a Ph.D. in Civil Engineering at Johns Hopkins University, where she worked on topology optimizationforimproved manufacturability and cellular material design. Carstensens research focuses on the new opportunities arising as digitalization of design and manufacturing is transforming the way we create the built environment. Her group develops and evaluates new design methods and tools that use structural mechanics and mathematical optimization to advance the design of structures on length scales ranging from material architectures, over component to large scale structural design. She is a dedicated mentor and teacher, and is actively involved in the Structural Engineering and Design MEng program. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/2-Carstensen-Josephine.jpg Website Josephine Carstensen Civil and Environmental Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/josephine-carstensen/ Yufeng (Kevin) Chen joinedthe Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in January 2020. He received his Ph.D. in engineering science from Harvard University and his B.S. in applied physics from Cornell. He did postdoctoral research at Harvard University, leading to the development of small robots that arehighly agile, multifunctional, and robust.His work has appeared in top journals includingScience Robotics, Nature, andNature Communications, among others. He has been aForbes 30 Under 30fellow. He investigatesmillimeter-scaled biomechanics, distilling the underlying physical principles, and then applies these findings to enable novel functions in microrobots. He is also interested in developing novel soft actuators to enable agile and robust locomotion in microrobots. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-YuFeng-Chen-Kevin.jpg Website Yufeng (Kevin) Chen Electrical Engineering and Computer Science https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/yufeng-kevin-chen/ Connor Coley joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in August 2020. He received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology in 2014, his M.S. in Chemical Engineering Practice, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2016, and his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2019, where he was co-advised by Klavs Jensen and William Green. His research is in the area of machine learning and artificial intelligence for molecular and process discovery. He received the distinctions of being selected as a 2018 DARPA Riser and as one of the ACS C&ENs Talented 12. His work centers around systematizing and accelerating small molecule discovery through new approaches to statistical inference that combine chemical data with domain expertise. The Coley lab focuses on addressing the fundamental challenges that have relegated autonomous discovery to proof-of-concept studies. He is applying AI-driven experimental platforms to the rational design and optimization of novel molecular agents, e.g., as protein binders, chemical sensors, antibiotics, and organocatalysts, in close partnership with researchers in chemical biology and synthetic chemistry. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-Coley-Connor-e1597945539692.jpg Website Connor Coley Chemical Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/connor-coley/ Zachary Cordero joined the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics as an assistant professor in July 2020, to pursue research on additive manufacturing of architectured materials for extreme environments, such as those encountered in thermal protection and propulsion systems. He was formerly an assistant professor of Materials Science and NanoEngineering at Rice University where he lead the Additive Lab. He received his B.Sc. in physics and Ph.D. in materials science and engineering from MIT. He then spent one year as a postdoctoral fellow at the Manufacturing Demonstration Facility of Oak Ridge National Laboratory. There, he developed improved process monitoring, quality control, and microstructure design tools for power-bed, metal additive manufacturing technologies. His notable accomplishments as a principal investigator include: developing a hybrid additive manufacturing technique termed PrintCasting for creating architectured composites with precisely controlled thermal and mechanical properties; elucidating the micro-scale deformation mechanisms that control ultrasonic welding and ultrasonic additive manufacturing; and demonstrating a directional solidification technique for growing oligocrystals with tailored 3D grain boundary networks. At MIT, he is using these techniques to tackle key challenges limiting the performance of next-generation aircraft and spacecraft. Professor Corderos work has been recognized by several awards including Air Force Young Investigator. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/2-Cordero-Zachary.jpg Website Zachary Cordero Aeronautics and Astronautics https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/zachary-cordero/ Henry Corrigan-Gibbs joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in July 2020. He received a Pd.D. and an M.S. in computer science from Stanford University and a BS in computer science from Yale University. His research interests are in computer security, cryptography, systems, and privacy. He has received the Eurocrypt Best Young Researcher Paper Award, the Caspar Bowden Award for Outstanding Research in Privacy-Enhancing Technologies, an IEEE Security and Privacy Distinguished Paper Award, a National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowship, and an NSF Fellowship. He was also a postdoc at the cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland. Previously he was an intern at Microsoft Research and the New York Times Interactive News Group, and he has also worked on computer-science projects in Ghana, Nepal, and Uganda. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-Corrigan-Gibbs-Henry.jpg Website Henry Corrigan-Gibbs Electrical Engineering and Computer Science https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/henry-corrigan-gibbs/ Chuchu Fan joined the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics as an assistant professor in August 2020. She is finished her Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She received her Bachelors degree from Tsinghua University, Department of Automation in 2013. Her research interests are in the areas of formal methods and control for safe autonomy. She is a recipient of multiple prestigious awards including the Chinese Outstanding Student Abroad Award (2019), Mavis Future Faculty Fellowship (2018), Young Researcher for Heidelberg Laureate Forum (2017), Rising Stars in EECS (2016), EMSOFT 16 Best Paper finalist, and Robert Bosch Best Verification Award in CPSWeek 15. Her research achievements are also recognized with a Robert T. Chien Memorial Award (2019), a Mac Van Valkenburg Research Award (2018), a Yi-Min Wang and Pi-Yu Chung Endowed Research Award (2017), and a Rambus Fellowship (2016). https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-Fan-Chuchu.jpeg Website Chuchu Fan Aeronautics and Astronautics https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/chuchu-fan/ Ariel Furst joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in August 2019. She received her B.S. in Chemistry from University of Chicago in 2010, her Ph.D. In Chemistry from California Institute of Technology in 2015 where she was advised by Jackie Barton, and she recently completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the University of California, Berkeley with Matthew Francis. She was awarded the Arnold O. Beckman Fellowship in 2016-2018, and the Remsen Bird Lecturer Award in 2018. Her research interests include bioelectrochemistry, clinical diagnostics, biotechnology, surface chemistry and self-assembly, with particular interest in electrochemical diagnostic devices. The Furst group studies pathogenic bacteria in complex environments, answering questions at the intersection of chemistry and biology using electrochemistry as a tool. Her lab is developing new technologies based on electrochemistry to detect infectious disease, screen antibiotic candidates, elucidate mutagenesis pathways that lead to antibiotic resistance, and study fundamental mechanisms of pathogenesis. Her work focuses on improving the ability to fight infections and provide access to diagnostics and treatments. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/4-Furst-Ariel.jpg Website Ariel Furst Chemical Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/ariel-furst/ Kate E. Galloway joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in 2019. She received her B.S. in Chemical Engineering from UC Berkeley in 2005, and received her M.S. in Chemical Engineering in 2007, and Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering with a Minor in Biology in 2012, each from the California Institute of Technology. She won the NIH Ruth Kirchstein Postdoctoral Research Fellowship and completed her postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Southern California with Justin Ichida from 2013. Her research interests include Synthetic Biology, Molecular Systems Biology, Stem Cells, Cellular Reprogramming, 3D Genome Organization & Structure, Single-cell Analytics, Genetic Control Systems, Oncogenesis & Metastasis and Epigenetics. As a chemical engineer specializing in molecular systems biology, her ultimate goal is to leverage synthetic biology principles to transform how we understand cellular transitions and engineer cellular therapies. Her work is focused on designing and constructing integrated synthetic circuits to probe and actuate changes in DNA topology that drive changes in cell fate. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/3-Galloway-Kate.jpg Website Kate E. Galloway Chemical Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/kate-e-galloway/ Anders Sejr Hansen joined the Department of Biological Engineering as an assistant professor in February 2020. He carried out his undergraduate studies and Masters degree at Oxford University focusing on synthetic organic chemistry and his Pd.D. work at Harvard University where he developed new microfluidic and systems biology approaches to understand how cells can transmit gene expression information through temporal encoding in the dynamics of transcription factor activation. As a postdoc at UC Berkeley, he carried out cutting-edge work suggesting for the first time that genome organization and chromatin looping is highly dynamic inside single cells. His work has appeared in top journals and he was awarded a K99/R00 Pathway to Independence award from the NIH. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-Hansen-Anders-Sejr.jpg Website Anders Sejr Hansen Biological Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/anders-sejr-hansen/ Jonathan Ragan-Kelley joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in January 2020. He received a Ph.D. and an S.M. in electrical engineering and computer science from MIT, and a B.S. in computer science from Stanford University. His research focuses on computer graphics, compilers, domain-specific languages, and high-performance systems. Among other honors, he has received research highlights in the Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery (CACM) journal, an Intel Foundation Pd.D. Fellowship, an NVIDIA Graduate Fellowship, an NSF Fellowship, and MITs William A. Martin Award for Best Masters Thesis in Computer Science. He is a former assistant professor at the University of California at Berkeley and has taught at Stanford and MIT. He was a postdoc at Stanford, and has been a researcher, intern, or consultant for Google, Adobe, and Intel, among others. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-Ragan-Kelley-Jonathan.jpg Website Jonathan Ragan-Kelley Electrical Engineering and Computer Science https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/jonathan-ragan-kelley/ Vivishek Sudhir joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering as an assistant professor in July 2020. He received his Ph.D. in Physics from the cole polytechnique fdrale de Lausanne in 2016. As a postdoctoral associate, he led a team of graduate students that first demonstrated quantum-enhanced force measurement using quantum correlations generated in a room-temperature interferometer. He was the first to achieve the measurement of the position of a macroscopic object with the minimum noise allowed by the principles of quantum mechanics. His current interests, pursued in the LIGO Laboratory at MIT, are to scale-up quantum metrology techniques to gram-scale oscillators, quantum technologies based on mechanically-compliant interferometers, and to develop mechanical systems that allow for probes of basic physics of motion. Vivisheks work has been recognized by a Best Poster Award at the International Conference on Laser Spectroscopy (2015), an EPFL Best Thesis Prize (Photonics, 2017), and a Swiss National Science Foundation Fellowship (2018). https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/1-Sudhir-Vivishek-.jpeg Website Vivishek Sudhir Mechanical Engineering https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/vivishek-sudhir/ Mengjia Yan joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in November 2019. She received a Pd.D. and an M.S. in computer science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a BS in computer science from Zhejiang University in China. Her research interests are in computer architecture, focusing on hardware support for security. Among other honors, she was a selected participant for Rising Stars in EECS at MIT and for Rising Stars in Computer Architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2018. At UIUC, she was a Mavis Future Faculty Fellow, a distinction awarded to students planning careers as engineering professors, and she received the W.J. Poppelbaum Memorial Award for architecture design creativity. She also served as a research intern for the NVIDIA Architecture Research Group. https://engineering.mit.edu/wp-content/uploads/2-Yan-Mengjia.jpg Website Mengjia Yan Electrical Engineering and Computer Science https://engineering.mit.edu/faculty/mengjia-yan/ MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
