MIT School of Engineering | Faez Ahmed Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty>>Faez Ahmed Faculty Browse All faculty Faez Ahmed Faez Ahmed joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering as an assistant professor in July 2020. He received his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Maryland, College Park in 2019. His interests are in studying principled methods for representation, learning, and optimization of discrete problems occurring in design. Faez works at the intersection of Machine Learning, Engineering Design, and Human-Computer Interaction to enable globally distributed teams of designers to participate in the design process. Prior to his Ph.D., he worked as a Reliability Engineer for Rio Tinto in Western Australia. He was a Future Faculty Fellow at the University of Maryland and recipient of the Kulkarni Fellowship. He is also the lead organizer of ACM New York and has ongoing collaborations with other non-profits to educate the local community about computing and data science. He is a former Postdoctoral Fellow at the IDEAL Lab at Northwestern University. MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
