MIT School of Engineering | Henry Corrigan-Gibbs Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty>>Henry Corrigan-Gibbs Faculty Browse All faculty Henry Corrigan-Gibbs Henry Corrigan-Gibbs joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in July 2020. He received a Pd.D. and an M.S. in computer science from Stanford University and a BS in computer science from Yale University. His research interests are in computer security, cryptography, systems, and privacy. He has received the Eurocrypt Best Young Researcher Paper Award, the Caspar Bowden Award for Outstanding Research in Privacy-Enhancing Technologies, an IEEE Security and Privacy Distinguished Paper Award, a National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowship, and an NSF Fellowship. He was also a postdoc at the cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland. Previously he was an intern at Microsoft Research and the New York Times Interactive News Group, and he has also worked on computer-science projects in Ghana, Nepal, and Uganda. MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
