MIT School of Engineering | Connor Coley Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty>>Connor Coley Faculty Browse All faculty Connor Coley Connor Coley joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in August 2020. He received his B.S. in Chemical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology in 2014, his M.S. in Chemical Engineering Practice, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2016, and his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2019, where he was co-advised by Klavs Jensen and William Green. His research is in the area of machine learning and artificial intelligence for molecular and process discovery. He received the distinctions of being selected as a 2018 DARPA Riser and as one of the ACS C&ENs Talented 12. His work centers around systematizing and accelerating small molecule discovery through new approaches to statistical inference that combine chemical data with domain expertise. The Coley lab focuses on addressing the fundamental challenges that have relegated autonomous discovery to proof-of-concept studies. He is applying AI-driven experimental platforms to the rational design and optimization of novel molecular agents, e.g., as protein binders, chemical sensors, antibiotics, and organocatalysts, in close partnership with researchers in chemical biology and synthetic chemistry. MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
