MIT School of Engineering | Faculty Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Departments Aeronautics and Astronautics Biological Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Institute for Medical Engineering and Science Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Nuclear Science and Engineering Connect Giving Industry Collaborations Engineering in Action In The News Newsletter: The Infinite Ask an Engineer About Leadership Facts and Figures Diversity and Equity Visit Us Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Future Engineers Faculty & Research Faculty Research Academics Undergraduate Graduate Professional Education Open Access Students Research Making Innovation Athletics Global Experiences Student Activities Leadership Development Awards Home>>Faculty Faculty Chuchu Fan Chuchu Fan joined the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics as an assistant professor in August 2020. She is finished her Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She received her Bachelors degree from Tsinghua University, Department of Automation in 2013. Her research interests are in the areas of formal methods and control for safe autonomy. She is a recipient of multiple prestigious awards including the Chi ... Ariel Furst Ariel Furst joined the Department of Chemical Engineering as an assistant professor in August 2019. She received her B.S. in Chemistry from University of Chicago in 2010, her Ph.D. In Chemistry from California Institute of Technology in 2015 where she was advised by Jackie Barton, and she recently completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the University of California, Berkeley with Matthew Francis. She was awarded the Arnold O. Beckman Fellowship in 2016-2018, and the Remsen B ... Anders Sejr Hansen Anders Sejr Hansen joined the Department of Biological Engineering as an assistant professor in February 2020. He carried out his undergraduate studies and Masters degree at Oxford University focusing on synthetic organic chemistry and his Pd.D. work at Harvard University where he developed new microfluidic and systems biology approaches to understand how cells can transmit gene expression information through temporal encoding in the dynamics of transcription factor activa ... Cathy Wu Cathy Wu will join the Instituteas an assistant professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with a core affiliation in the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society, in July. Wu earned a PhD in electrical engineering and computer science at the University of California at Berkeley, where she worked with the Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research Lab, Berkeley DeepDrive, California Partners for Advanced Transportation Technology, and the Berkeley Real-time Intellige ... Giovanni Traverso Giovanni Traverso will join the Department of Mechanical Engineering as an assistant professor in July. He received his PhD in medical sciences from Johns Hopkins University in 2010. He subsequently completed medical school at Cambridge University, an internal medicine residency at the Brigham and Womens Hospital (BWH), and his gastroenterology fellowship training at Massachusetts General Hospital. He is presently an assistant professor of medicine and associate physician in the division o ... Suvrit Sra Suvrit Srajoinsthe Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and the Institute for Data, Systems and Societyas an assistant professor this month. He was a principal research scientist in the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems (LIDS) at MIT. He obtained his PhD in computer science from the University of Texas at Austin in 2007. Before joining LIDS, he was a senior research scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems in Tbingen, Germany. He ... Frances M. Ross Frances M. Ross joined the Department of Materials Science and Engineering as a full professor in December. Previously she was a member of the nanoscale materials analysis department at IBMs Thomas J. Watson Research Center, where she performed research on nanostructures using transmission electron microscopes (TEM) that allow researchers to see, in real time, how nanostructures form, and then to see how the growth process is affected by changes in temperature, environment, and other varia ... Negar Reiskarimian Negar Reiskarimianwill join the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor in July. She received both a BS and MS degree in electrical engineering from Sharif University of Technology in Iran and is currently a PhD candidate in electrical engineering at Columbia University. She has published in top-tier IEEE IC-related journals and conferences, as well as broader-interest high-impact journals in the Nature family. Her research has been widel ... Kevin OBrien Kevin OBrienjoined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an assistant professor lastJuly. He earned a BS in physics from Purdue University and a PhD in physics from the University of California at Berkeley. He joined the Quantum Nanoelectrics Lab (Siddiqi Group) at UC Berkeley as a postdoc to lead development of multiqubit quantum processors. His work has appeared in top journals including Science, Nature Materials, and Nature Communicat ... Richard Linares Richard Linares joined the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics as an assistant professor lastJuly. Before joining MIT, he was an assistant professor at the University of Minnesotas aerospace engineering and mechanics department. Linares received his BS, MS, and PhD degrees in aerospace engineering from the State University of New York at Buffalo. He was a Directors Postdoctoral Fellow at Los Alamos National Laboratory and also held a postdoc appointment at the United States Nav ... Posts navigation Prev 1 2 3 4 9 Next MIT School of Engineering Room 1-206 77 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge, MA 02139-4307 +1-617-253-3291 MIT Directory Accessibility Admissions Faculty & Research New Faculty (2020) Academics Students Connect About Contact Us title content content Link link For the latest information about MITs response to Covid-19, visit now.mit.edu.
