Neer Asherie | Yeshiva University Message From Our President Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Friends, I am pleased to present to you this Guide to our plans for the upcoming fall semester and reopening of our campuses. In form and in content, this coming semester will be like no other. We will live differently, work differently and learn differently. But in its very difference rests its enormous power. The mission of Yeshiva University is to enrich the moral, intellectual and spiritual development of each of our students, empowering them with the knowledge and abilities to become people of impact and leaders of tomorrow. Next years studies will be especially instrumental in shaping the course of our students lives. Character is formed and developed in times of deep adversity. This is the kind of teachable moment that Yeshiva University was made for. As such, we have developed an educational plan for next year that features a high-quality student experience and prioritizes personal growth during this Coronavirus era. Our students will be able to work through the difficulties, issues and opportunities posed by our COVID-19 era with our stellar rabbis and faculty, as well as their close friends and peers at Yeshiva. To develop our plans for the fall, we have convened a Scenario Planning Task Force made up of representatives across the major areas of our campus. Their planning has been guided by the latest medical information, government directives, direct input from our rabbis, faculty and students, and best practices from industry and university leaders across the country. I am deeply thankful to our task force members and all who supported them for their tireless work in addressing the myriad details involved in bringing students back to campus and restarting our educational enterprise. In concert with the recommendations from our task force, I am announcing today that our fall semester will reflect a hybrid model. It will allow many students to return in a careful way by incorporating online and virtual learning with on-campus classroom instruction. It also enables students who prefer to not be on campus to have a rich student experience by continuing their studies online and benefitting from a full range of online student services and extracurricular programs. In bringing our students back to campus, safety is our first priority. Many aspects of campus life will change for this coming semester. Gatherings will be limited, larger courses will move completely online. Throughout campus everyone will need to adhere to our medical guidelines, including social distancing, wearing facemasks, and our testing and contact tracing policies. Due to our focus on minimizing risk, our undergraduate students will begin the first few weeks of the fall semester online and move onto the campus after the Jewish holidays. This schedule will limit the amount of back and forth travel for our students by concentrating the on-campus component of the fall semester to one consecutive segment. Throughout our planning, we have used the analogy of a dimmer switch. Reopening our campuses will not be a simple binary, like an on/off light switch, but more like a dimmer in which we have the flexibility to scale backwards and forwards to properly respond as the health situation evolves. It is very possible that some plans could change, depending upon the progression of the virus and/or applicable state and local government guidance. Before our semester begins, we will provide more updates reflecting our most current guidance. Please check our website, yu.edu/fall2020 for regular updates. We understand that even after reading through this guide, you might have many additional questions, so we will be posting an extensive FAQ section online as well. Additionally, we will also be holding community calls for faculty, students, staff and parents over the next couple of months. Planning for the future during this moment has certainly been humbling. This Coronavirus has reminded us time and time again of the lessons from our Jewish tradition that we are not in full control of our circumstances. But our tradition also teaches us that we are in control of our response to our circumstances. Next semester will present significant challenges and changes. There will be some compromises and minor inconveniences--not every issue has a perfect solution. But faith and fortitude, mutual cooperation and resilience are essential life lessons that are accentuated during this period. And if we all commit to respond with graciousness, kindness, and love, we can transform new campus realities into profound life lessons for our future. Deeply rooted in our Jewish values and forward focused in preparing for the careers and competencies of the future, we journey together with you, our Yeshiva University community, through these uncharted waters. Next year will be a formative year in the lives of our students, and together we will rise to the moment so that our students will emerge stronger and better prepared to be leaders of the world of tomorrow. Best Wishes, Ari Berman Don't show again OK Skip to main content . Fall 2020 Opening Plan: Please refer to our latest updates here Skip to desktop navigation to bypass mobile navigation Home Search Main navigation About Administration President Provost Deans and Directors Board of Trustees History History Timeline of YU Dr. Bernard Revel Dr. Samuel Belkin Dr. Norman Lamm Dr. Richard M. Joel The Lamm Heritage Visiting Us Vision and Values Academics Undergraduate New Pathways and Dual Degrees Katz School of Science and Health Stern College for Women Summer Session Sy Syms School of Business Yeshiva College Graduate New Pathways and Dual Degrees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education & Administration Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Graduate Program In Advanced Talmudic Studies Katz School of Science and Health Sy Syms School of Business Wurzweiler School of Social Work Seminary Belz School Of Jewish Music Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Centers & Institutes The Emil A. and Jenny Fish Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Yeshiva University Center for Israel Studies Center for the Jewish Future Center For Jewish Law Jacob E. Safra Institute For Sephardic Studies Makor College Experience Rabbi Arthur Schneier Program For International Affairs Straus Center for Torah & Western Thought Registrar Services Academic Advisement Academic Support Career Center Provost Writing Centers Faculty Undergraduate Admissions Apply / Enroll Information for Admitted Students Application Process Freshman Applicants Associates of Liberal Arts Associate in Management Applicants Early Admissions Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Honors Applicants Post Pesach Program Israel Program Events Virtual Open House YU National Model UN Sarachek Tournament Student Finance Finance Your Education Academic Scholarships Need-Based Scholarships Visit YU Visit YU Virtually YU in Your Town Directions / Parking Life in NYC MY YU Story Contact Us Graduate Admissions Graduate Schools and Programs Graduate Financial Aid Student Life Campus Maps Living at YU Men's Housing Women's Housing Kosher Dining Parents Corner Shabbat Programming Life in New York City YUcard Student Organizations Athletics Resources & Services Career Center Counseling Center Disability Services Health Insurance Health And Wellness International Students and Scholars Madrichot Ruchaniot Mashgichim Ruchaniim S'gan-Mashgichim Standards and Policies Graduate Student Life Cardozo Student Life Ferkauf Student Life Katz Student Life Orientation My YU Story Contact Jewish Living & Learning RIETS Center for the Jewish Future Sephardic Programs YU in Israel Counterpoint Israel Israel Alumni Israel Hi-Tech Tours YUNIT Contact Us Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Graduate Program In Advanced Talmudic Studies For Women Support YU Where to Give Emergency Scholarship Campaign Find Your Cause Support a School or Program Ways to Give Cash or Check Planned Gifts and Estates Corporate Matching Gifts Other Types of Gifts Gift FAQs Donor Community and Impact Benefactors Canadian Friends of Yeshiva University Donor Community Donor Stories Donor Impact President's Society YU's Contributions to the World Utility menu Alumni University News Libraries Museum Offices & Services Faculty Resources Student Toolkit Campus Maps Inside Track Skip to main navigation to bypass utlility navigation Utility menu Alumni University News Libraries Museum Offices & Services Faculty Resources Student Toolkit Campus Maps Inside Track Yeshiva University a place to Search Main navigation About Administration President Provost Deans and Directors Board of Trustees History History Timeline of YU Dr. Bernard Revel Dr. Samuel Belkin Dr. Norman Lamm Dr. Richard M. Joel The Lamm Heritage Visiting Us Vision and Values Academics Undergraduate New Pathways and Dual Degrees Katz School of Science and Health Stern College for Women Summer Session Sy Syms School of Business Yeshiva College Graduate New Pathways and Dual Degrees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education & Administration Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Graduate Program In Advanced Talmudic Studies Katz School of Science and Health Sy Syms School of Business Wurzweiler School of Social Work Seminary Belz School Of Jewish Music Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Centers & Institutes The Emil A. and Jenny Fish Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Yeshiva University Center for Israel Studies Center for the Jewish Future Center For Jewish Law Jacob E. Safra Institute For Sephardic Studies Makor College Experience Rabbi Arthur Schneier Program For International Affairs Straus Center for Torah & Western Thought Registrar Services Academic Advisement Academic Support Career Center Provost Writing Centers Faculty Undergraduate Admissions Apply / Enroll Information for Admitted Students Application Process Freshman Applicants Associates of Liberal Arts Associate in Management Applicants Early Admissions Applicants Transfer Applicants International Applicants Honors Applicants Post Pesach Program Israel Program Events Virtual Open House YU National Model UN Sarachek Tournament Student Finance Finance Your Education Academic Scholarships Need-Based Scholarships Visit YU Visit YU Virtually YU in Your Town Directions / Parking Life in NYC MY YU Story Contact Us Graduate Admissions Graduate Schools and Programs Graduate Financial Aid Student Life Campus Maps Living at YU Men's Housing Women's Housing Kosher Dining Parents Corner Shabbat Programming Life in New York City YUcard Student Organizations Athletics Resources & Services Career Center Counseling Center Disability Services Health Insurance Health And Wellness International Students and Scholars Madrichot Ruchaniot Mashgichim Ruchaniim S'gan-Mashgichim Standards and Policies Graduate Student Life Cardozo Student Life Ferkauf Student Life Katz Student Life Orientation My YU Story Contact Jewish Living & Learning RIETS Center for the Jewish Future Sephardic Programs YU in Israel Counterpoint Israel Israel Alumni Israel Hi-Tech Tours YUNIT Contact Us Torah Studies Men's Studies Women's Studies Graduate Program In Advanced Talmudic Studies For Women Support YU Where to Give Emergency Scholarship Campaign Find Your Cause Support a School or Program Ways to Give Cash or Check Planned Gifts and Estates Corporate Matching Gifts Other Types of Gifts Gift FAQs Donor Community and Impact Benefactors Canadian Friends of Yeshiva University Donor Community Donor Stories Donor Impact President's Society YU's Contributions to the World Faculty Directory Neer Asherie Professor of Physics and Biology Education: BA, University of Cambridge, PhD, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Neer Asherie CV Biography: The long-term goal of Professor Asheries research is to make it possible to predict the phase behavior of protein solutions and to learn to control protein self-assembly. Proteins can self-assemble into a variety of phases (crystals, dense liquids, aggregates, and gels), but this phase behavior is not well understood. The inability to predict protein phase behavior inhibits progress on many biophysical problems, including protein condensation diseases, the industrial purification of proteins, and the determination of the high-resolution x-ray structures of proteins. A combined experimental and computation approach is used to understand the relationship between the molecular interactions and the macroscopic phases Email: asherie@yu.edu Office Phone: 212-960-5452 Office Address: Wilf campus - Belfer Hall Room#1412 MEDIA RELATIONS To request an interview, please contact Media Relations at 212-960-5400 x5488 or publicaffairs@yu.edu Recent courses: Fall 2018 General Physics III Lab PHY 2061L Intro Physics Lab PHY 1031L Intro Physics Lecture PHY 1031R Physics I Pre-engineering Sem. PHY 1033T Physics I Problem Seminar PHY 1031T Personal Webpage Graduate Apply Undergrad Apply Plan a Visit Request Info Contact Us Support YU YU Home Emergency Info Feedback University News Faculty News About Administration & History Contact & Campuses Directory Career Opportunities Academics Undergraduate Graduate Online Graduate Programs Libraries Faculty Admissions Colleges & Schools Israel Program International Students Student Finance Jewish Living & Learning RIETS Center for the Jewish Future Sephardic Programs Torah Studies YU for You Student Parent Faculty Alumni Facebook YouTube Twitter Blogs Instagram Yeshiva University 500 West 185th Street, New York, NY 10033 212.960.5400 Footer Navigation Accessibility Statement Privacy Policy Editor Login Terms of Use
