Gary F. Merrill Rutgers HomeSchool of Arts and SciencesSearch RutgersDivision of Life Sciences Search ... Search ... Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience Rutgers SAS Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Why CBN? Learning Goals Prospective Students About the Major Course Descriptions Course Registration Course Schedule Advising Honors Residency Requirements Forms Repository Approved Electives Research for Credit Summer Undergrad Research Fellowships (SURF) Transfer Credit Awards Careers Related Links Graduate People Faculty Meet the Junior Faculty Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Research Faculty Research Neuroscience Cell Biology and Biochemistry Organismal Behavior and Physiology Faculty Publications Faculty Recruitment Research Facilities Lab Sites News News Newsletters Events & Seminars Seminar Series Archive Past Seminars Calendar Past Events Support Contact Gary F. MerrillProfessor... This e-mail address is protected from spam bots, you must enable JavaScript in your web browser to view it (848) 445-2320(732) 445-1794B222 Nelson LabsMammalian cardiovascular systemCurrent ResearchResearch InterestsMammalian cardiovascular systemResearch GroupOrganismal Behavior and PhysiologyCurrent ResearchI became interested in the heart and circulation as an undergraduate student in the 1960s. During graduate school in the early 1970s I worked in two laboratories. One focused on the roles of the microcirculation in maintaining blood volume and the distribution of body water. The other investigated the roles of naturally-occuringmetabolites in regulating blood flow. My metabolite of choice was adenosine, the nucleoside by-product of ATP degradation. In the early 1960s Robert Berne at the University of Virginia hypothesized that adenosine is an important metabolic regulator of myocardial oxygen delivery and coronary blood flow. I studied its coronary circulatory roles in states of acidosis, alkalosis and in the absence and presence of adenosine receptor antagonists such as the methyl xanthines (e.g. theophylline; caffeine is another example of a methyl xanthine). We reported that tissue acidosis enhances and alkalosis inhibits adenosines coronary vasodilator properties. Methyl xanthines also blocked its coronary vascular actions. Later, in the 1980s and while on sabbatical at Southwestern Medical School (University of Texas Health Sciences Centers, Dallas) as a guest in the laboratory of H. Fred Downey, we began using adenosine deaminase to test Bernes adenosine hypothesis. We found that hypoxia-induced coronary vasodilation in experimental animals could be attenuated in the presence of administered adenosine deaminase. This was the case whether hypoxia was induced systemically or locally (only the heart suffered hypoxia while the rest of the animals body was normoxic). Perhaps confusingly, we also noted that hypoxia-induced ventricular arrhythmias could be attenuated by adenosine deaminase. This seemed to suggest that not only was adenosine important in regulating coronary blood flow, but that it was also responsible, at least in part, for the cardiac arrhythmias caused by hypoxia. Most recently we have turned our attention to ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiac injury and the subject of cardioprotection. The latter topic became important in the 1980s and 1990s. In our laboratory at Rutgers University we discovered, somewhat serendipitously, that acetaminophen (active ingredient in analgesics such as Tylenol) is cardioprotective. Hearts exposed to experimental myocardial infarction suffered less damage in the presence of acetaminophen (as did those exposed to brief periods of partial or complete myocardial ischemia followed by reperfusion). Mechanistically, acetaminophen is a broad-spectrum antioxidant (most phenols possess antioxidant properties). It also inhibits matrix metalloproteinases (e.g. MMP-2) and reduces mitochondrial damage caused by ischemia/reperfusion (as evidenced by reduced contents of cytochrome C in cellular cytosol). The latter action involves acetaminophens ability to stabilize the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (MPTP).Publications For CBN's main publication search, click here.Powered by Community Builder Connect with Rutgers SAS Events Explore SAS Departments & Degree-Granting Programs Quick Links WM Keck Center for Collaborative NeuroscienceRutgers Stem Cell Research CenterDepartment of GeneticsDepartment of Molecular Biology and BiochemistryRUCDRDivision of Life Sciences Social Media Facebook Contact Us Nelson Biology Labs604 Allison RoadPiscataway, NJ 08854-8082(848) 445-3471 This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.. HomeSite MapSearchSite FeedbackLogin Back to Top Copyright 2020, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers web sites to: accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier or Provide Feedback Form.
