UC Berkeley - Department of Philosophy Toggle navigation People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Visiting Scholars In Memoriam Undergraduate Overview Frequently Asked Questions Student Groups Undergraduate Student Learning Goals Peer Tutoring Graduate Overview Philosophy Ph.D. Ancient Philosophy Logic at Berkeley History & Philosophy of Science Admissions Funding Placement Courses Fall 2020 Spring 2021 Summer 2021 1st 6wks Summer 2021 2nd 6wks Fall 2021 Spring 2022 Archive Events Upcoming Recent Archive Calendar Equity & Inclusion News Facilities Internal Contact Make a Gift Visiting Scholars Valentin Beck is a lecturer at the Institute of Philosophy at the Freie Universitt Berlin (2012-). He was previously a doctoral fellow at the Goethe University Frankfurt (2009-12) and the University of Bremen (2008-9) and a visiting scholar at the ANU in Canberra (2011). His research is in political and moral philosophy and economic ethics. In his monograph, Eine Theorie der globalen Verantwortung [A Theory of Global Responsibility; Suhrkamp 2016], he develops an approach to moral and political responsibilities of individuals and collectives in the global realm, especially as regards global poverty. More recently, he has written and published on issues in consumer ethics and the ethics of boycotting. Soon Jeon Kang Sang Mu Oh B. Scot Rousse My scholarly work takes place at the crossroads of existential phenomenology, hermeneutics, and the philosophy of action, and these days I am invested in rethinking not only the nature of human identity, but also the nature of education and design. In addition to being a visiting scholar in the Department of Philosophy here at Berkeley, I am Director of Research for Pluralistic Networks, Inc., an education and professional development company based in Oakland, CA, which was co-founded by Fernando Flores. I received my Ph.D. in philosophy from Northwestern University and my B.A. in philosophy here at Berkeley. Visiting Student Researchers Jonas Blatter Sihao Chew Ayako Horiuchi Melanie Tate Inken Titz Home | UC Berkeley | College of Letters & Science | Support philosophy! 2006-2020 Regents of the University of California
