Kristin Roebuck | History Cornell Arts & Sciences arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Site Search Search Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program History Graduate Field Current Course Listings Course Flyers Job Placement: Hire a Cornell PhD Faculty Office Hours People Department Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Professors Emeriti Current Graduate Students Research Faculty Books About Us Department Contacts and Administration Alumni Profiles Cornell Historical Society History You are here Home Kristin Roebuck Kristin Roebuck Assistant Professor and Howard Milstein Faculty Fellow kar79@cornell.edu607-255-8862 Educational Background PhD in East Asian History, Columbia University; BA in History, Barnard College Exchange Researcher at Waseda University Graduate School of Political Science Overview Kristin is drafting a book manuscript entitled Japan Reborn: Race and the Family of Nations after World War II. The book explores a mass-mediated furor with geopolitcal implications that erupted in the 1950s over "mixed-blood" children born to Japanese women and American soldiers stationed in defeated Japan. Japan Reborn exposes how Japanese nationalism, often erroneously held to have vanished in the wake of defeat in World War II, was instead reconstructed on a new basis: that of the "pure race" rather than the failed state. Departments/Programs Asian Studies History Research Kristin Roebuck is a historian of modern Japan whose research interests encompass the history of the body, medicine and law, race and sexuality, and Japanese international relations. CoursesFall 2020 HIST 2001 : Supervised Reading - Undergraduate HIST 2315 : The Occupation of Japan HIST 3002 : Supervised Research - Undergraduate HIST 8004 : Supervised Reading Publications Japan Reborn: Mixed-Race Children and the Family of Nations after World War II. Book manuscript in progress. "Akihito Bows Out, Ushering in New Era for Japan's Post-War Generation," The Hill (30 April 2019), https://thehill.com/opinion/international/441183-akihito-bows-out-ushering-in-era-for-japans-post-war-generation Orphans by Design: Mixed-Blood Children, Child Welfare, and Racial Nationalism in Postwar Japan,Japanese Studies Vol. 36.2 (Sep. 2016). De-Provincializing Eugenics: The Persistence of Race Hygiene in Japan after Its Decline in the West, in Asia and Africa across Disciplinary and National Lines (Tokyo: Tokyo University of Foreign Studies Press, 2015). "Japan, U.S. Face Legacies of Forced Sterilization,"Global Journalist(25 Oct. 2018),National Public Radio,https://www.npr.org/podcasts/596449301/global-journalist Become a History Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to History The College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Feedback Twitter Instagram450 McGraw Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853607-255-8862 2020 Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
