Julilly Kohler-Hausmann | History Cornell Arts & Sciences arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Site Search Search Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program History Graduate Field Current Course Listings Course Flyers Job Placement: Hire a Cornell PhD Faculty Office Hours People Department Faculty Graduate Field Faculty Professors Emeriti Current Graduate Students Research Faculty Books About Us Department Contacts and Administration Alumni Profiles Cornell Historical Society History You are here Home Julilly Kohler-Hausmann Julilly Kohler-Hausmann Associate Professor Mcgraw Hall, Room 318 jkh224@cornell.edu Website(s) History Profile Getting Tough: Welfare and Imprisonment in 1970s America Overview Julilly Kohler-Hausmann studies the United States with a particular focus on political, legal, social, and womens history after World War II. Her research explores how political culture and law interact to shape conceptions of civic belonging and the states responsibility for managing inequality. Her first book, Getting Tough: Welfare and Imprisonment in 1970s America, chronicles efforts during the 1970s to enact "tough" welfare, drug, and anti-crime laws. It examines the relationship between the diminishing welfare state, the burgeoning penal system, and the persistent racialized civic hierarchies in the late twentieth century United States. Kohler-Hausmann is currently writing a history of U.S. democracy since the 1965 Voting Rights Act that centers those people assumed to be outside of politics: those who did not or could not vote. She is researching issues such as felon disenfranchisement, voter fraud, registration requirements, campaign finance regulations, and voting rights of immigrants and residents of Puerto Rico, Washington DC, and other U.S. territories to illuminate the eras competing visions of legitimate democratic governance. Departments/Programs American Studies Program History Graduate Fields History CoursesFall 2020 HIST 2001 : Supervised Reading - Undergraduate HIST 3002 : Supervised Research - Undergraduate HIST 8004 : Supervised Reading Publications Getting Tough: Welfare and Imprisonment in 1970s America (Princeton University Press, 2017) Welfare Crises, Penal Solutions, and the Origins of the Welfare Queen, Journal of Urban History 41, no. 5 (September 2015): 75671. Guns and Butter: The Welfare State, the Carceral State, and the Politics of Exclusion in Postwar United States History, Journal of American History 102, no. 1 (June 2015): 8799. The Attila the Hun Law: New Yorks Rockefeller Drug Laws and the Making of a Punitive State, Journal of Social History (September 2010): 71-96. Militarizing the Police: Officer Jon Burges Torture and Repression in the Urban Jungle, in Stephen Hartnett, ed., Challenging the Prison-Industrial Complex: Activism, Arts, and Educational Alternatives (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, December 2010), 43-71. The Crime of Survival: Fraud Prosecutions, Community Surveillance, and the Original Welfare Queen, Journal of Social History (Winter 2007): 329-354. News Related Articles Julilly Kohler-Hausmann Receives Fellowship in American History Democracy Contested? forum panel to meet online Oct. 29 Become a History Major Apply to A&S See the Campus Visit A&S Support the Department Give to History The College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Feedback Twitter Instagram450 McGraw Hall, Ithaca, New York 14853607-255-8862 2020 Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contactweb-accessibility@cornell.edufor assistance.
