College of Engineering Faculty & Staff | Villanova University Skip to main content APPLY GIVE MY NOVA WEBMAIL ELEARNING MENU MyNOVA VISIT SEARCH TOOLS CAMPAIGN APPLY GIVE WEBMAIL eLEARNING ABOUT ADMISSIONS ACADEMICS LIBRARY ON CAMPUS ATHLETICS ADVANCEMENT College of Engineering / Faculty and Staff Directory College of Engineering College of EngineeringAbout UsDepartmentsUndergraduate StudiesGraduate StudiesEngineering ExperienceFaculty and Staff DirectoryA-Z or By DepartmentAdvancement Staff for COEFaculty and ResearchAlumniNews and EventsPolicies and Resources Faculty and Staff Directory Villanova faculty are nationally recognized for excellence in teaching, applied learning techniques, and research. They have been awarded honors, research grants, and national fellowship by numerous academic associations. Practical experience in governmental agencies, large and small industrial and manufacturing settings, and various consulting engineering fields is characteristic of the faculty of the Engineering College. Diversity is enhanced by the presence of a number of professors who come from other countries. All members of the faculty share a commitment to effective teaching and research and to preserving the supportive personal atmosphere which prevails in the College. A philosophy of easy access to faculty is facilitated by maintaining an advisement policy and availability for consultation. Please see the Faculty Directory for a full listing of our teaching faculty. Administration Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies Academic Departments and Programs Chemical and Biological Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Sustainable Engineering Research Centers E-Learning Information Technology About College of Engineering Villanova University College of Engineering is committed to an educational program that emphasizes technical excellence and a liberal arts education within the framework of the University's Augustinian and Catholic traditions. As a community of scholars, we seek to educate students to pursue both knowledge and wisdom, and to aspire to ethical and moral leadership within their chosen careers, their community, and the world. Stay connected with the College of Engineering! Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Quick Links Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Faculty and Staff Directory Contact Us Contact Us 800 E. Lancaster Avenue Villanova, PA 19085 (610) 519-4500 Contact Us Send Feedback Privacy & Security Copyright Higher Education Act Accessibility 1990 - Fri Dec 11 22:01:39 CST 2020 Villanova University. All rights reserved.
