Crabtree, George | Physics | University of Illinois at Chicago Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. Skip to the content of this page, the main menu, the site search form, the site home page. UIC Logo Physics Search the site Toggle Menu Search UIC Logo Physics Physics Main Menu Academics Expand Academics menu Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Research Expand Research menu Applied Laser Biological & Soft Matter Condensed Matter Materials Physics Nuclear Physics Particle Physics Renewable Energy Research Resources News Events People Expand People menu Faculty&Instructors Staff Graduate Students Machine Shop Researchers Emeritus&Affiliates Resources Expand Resources menu Conference Room Scheduling Business & Accounting Forms Electronics Shop Machine Shop Minors in Labs Audiovisual Archives Safety Training About Expand About menu Contact Us Faculty Awards Department History In the Community Newsletter Archive Eyebrow menu las.uic.edu +Give UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map Search George Crabtree Energy Council Chair and Distinguished Professor Physics Contact Building & Room: 2340 SES Address: 601 S Morgan St. Office Phone: (312) 996-2141 Email: crabtree@uic.edu About George Crabtree is Professor of Physics at University of Illinois-Chicago and Senior Scientist in the Materials Science Division at Argonne National Laboratory. He has published more than 400 papers in leading scientific journals and has given over 100 invited talks at national and international scientific conferences. His research interests include materials science, renewable energy, sustainable energy, nanoscale superconductors and magnets, vortex matter in superconductors, and highly correlated electrons in metals. He has led workshops for the Department of Energy on hydrogen, solar energy, superconductivity, and materials under extreme environments, and co-chaired the Undersecretary of Energy's assessment of DOE's Applied Energy Programs. He has testified before the U.S. Congress on the hydrogen economy and on meeting sustainable energy challenges. UIC Logo College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Contact Department of Physics 845 W. Taylor St., Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 996-3400 Fax: (312) 996-9016 physics@uic.edu Social Media Accounts Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Cookie Settings Powered by Red 2.43.1 2020 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield
