Dean P. Foster Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Dean P. Foster Marie and Joseph Melone Professor Emeritus of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: dean.foster@gmail.com office Address: Research Interests: machine learning, statistical nlp., variable selection Links: Personal Website Overview Research Teaching In the News Overview Education PhD, University of Maryland, 1988 MSc, Rutgers University, 1984 MA, University of Maryland, 1982 BSc, University of Maryland, 1980 Academic Positions Held Wharton: 1992-present (named William H. Lawrence Professor, 2007). Previous appointment: University of Chicago. For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Robert A. Stine and Dean P. Foster, Statistics for Business: Decision Making and Analysis (Boston: Pearson, 2017)Kory Johnson, Dean P. Foster, Robert A. Stine (Working), Impartial Predictive Modeling: Ensuring Fairness in Arbitrary Models.Kory Johnson, Robert A. Stine, Dean P. Foster (Working), Submodularity in statistics: Comparing the success of model selection methods.Kory Johnson, Dean P. Foster, Robert A. Stine (Working), Revisiting alpha investing: conditionally valid stepwise regression.Dean P. Foster and Robert A. Stine (2015), Risk Inflation of Sequential Tests Controlled by Alpha Investing, Journal of Statistical Computation and Simulation, 85, pp. 3613-3627.Dean P. Foster, Alexander Rakhlin, Sridharan, K. (2015), Adaptive Online Learning, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2015). .Anima Anandkumar, Dean P. Foster, Daniel Hsu, Sham M. Kakade, Yi-Kai Liu (2015), A Spectral Algorithm for Latent Dirichlet Allocation, Algorithmica, 72 (1), pp. 193-214.Dean P. Foster, Mark Liberman, Robert A. Stine (Working), Featurizing text: Converting text into predictors for regression analysis.Dean P. Foster and Robert A. Stine (2014), Risk Inflation of Sequential Tests Controlled by Alpha Investing, Journal of Statistical Computation and Simulation.Yichao Lu and Dean P. Foster (2014), Large Scale Canonical Correlation Analysis with Iterative Least Squares, NIPS 2014. Teaching Past CoursesAMCS999 - IND STUDY & RESEARCH Study under the direction of a faculty member. BSTA620 - PROBABILITY I This course covers Elements of (non-measure theoretic) probability necessary for the further study of statistics and biostatistics. Topics include set theory, axioms of probability, counting arguments, conditional probability, random variables and distributions, expectations, generating functions, families of distributions, joint and marginal distributions, hierarchical models, covariance and correlation, random sampling, sampling properties of statistics, modes of convergence, and random number generation. Two semesters of calculus (through multivariate calculus), linerar algebra, or permission of the instructor to enroll. EAS 499 - SENIOR CAPSTONE The Senior Capstone Project is required for all BAS degree students, in lieu of the senior design course. The Capstone Project provides an opportunity for the student to apply the theoretical ideas and tools learned from other courses. The project is usually applied, rather than theoretical, exercise, and should focus on a real world problem related to the career goals of the student. The one-semester project may be completed in either the fall or sprong term of the senior year, and must be done under the supervision of a sponsoring faculty member. To register for this course, the student must submit a detailed proposal, signed by the supervising professor, and the student's faculty advisor, to the Office of Academic Programs two weeks prior to the start of the term. STAT101 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Data summaries and descriptive statistics; introduction to a statistical computer package; Probability: distributions, expectation, variance, covariance, portfolios, central limit theorem; statistical inference of univariate data; Statistical inference for bivariate data: inference for intrinsically linear simple regression models. This course will have a business focus, but is not inappropriate for students in the college. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT112 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Further development of the material in STAT 111, in particular the analysis of variance, multiple regression, non-parametric procedures and the analysis of categorical data. Data analysis via statistical packages. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT430 - PROBABILITY Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT431 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. This course does not have business applications but has significant overlap with STAT 101 and 102. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT433 - STOCHASTIC PROCESSES An introduction to Stochastic Processes. The primary focus is on Markov Chains, Martingales and Gaussian Processes. We will discuss many interesting applications from physics to economics. Topics may include: simulations of path functions, game theory and linear programming, stochastic optimization, Brownian Motion and Black-Scholes. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT471 - MODERN DATA MINING Modern Data Mining: Statistics or Data Science has been evolving rapidly to keep up with the modern world. While classical multiple regression and logistic regression technique continue to be the major tools we go beyond to include methods built on top of linear models such as LASSO and Ridge regression. Contemporary methods such as KNN (K nearest neighbor), Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analyses (PCA), the bootstrap and others are also covered. Text mining especially through PCA is another topic of the course. While learning all the techniques, we keep in mind that our goal is to tackle real problems. Not only do we go through a large collection of interesting, challenging real-life data sets but we also learn how to use the free, powerful software "R" in connection with each of the methods exposed in the class. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT510 - PROBABILITY Elements of matrix algebra. Discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions. Moments and moment generating functions. Joint distributions. Functions and transformations of random variables. Law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. Point estimation: sufficiency, maximum likelihood, minimum variance. Confidence intervals. A one-year course in calculus is recommended. STAT621 - ACC REGRESSION ANALYSIS STAT 621 is intended for students with recent, practical knowledge of the use of regression analysis in the context of business applications. This course covers the material of STAT 613, but omits the foundations to focus on regression modeling. The course reviews statistical hypothesis testing and confidence intervals for the sake of standardizing terminology and introducing software, and then moves into regression modeling. The pace presumes recent exposure to both the theory and practice of regression and will not be accommodating to students who have not seen or used these methods previously. The interpretation of regression models within the context of applications will be stressed, presuming knowledge of the underlying assumptions and derivations. The scope of regression modeling that is covered includes multiple regression analysis with categorical effects, regression diagnostic procedures, interactions, and time series structure. The presentation of the course relies on computer software that will be introduced in the initial lectures. Recent exposure to the theory and practice of regression modeling is recommended. STAT701 - MODERN DATA MINING Modern Data Mining: Statistics or Data Science has been evolving rapidly to keep up with the modern world. While classical multiple regression and logistic regression technique continue to be the major tools we go beyond to include methods built on top of linear models such as LASSO and Ridge regression. Contemporary methods such as KNN (K nearest neighbor), Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analyses (PCA), the bootstrap and others are also covered. Text mining especially through PCA is another topic of the course. While learning all the techniques, we keep in mind that our goal is to tackle real problems. Not only do we go through a large collection of interesting, challenging real-life data sets but we also learn how to use the free, powerful software "R" in connection with each of the methods exposed in the class. Prerequisite: two courses at the statistics 400 or 500 level or permission from instructor. STAT899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor, the department MBA advisor and course coordinator required to enroll. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. In the News Knowledge @ WhartonGaming the System: Are Hedge Fund Managers Talented, or Just Good at Fooling Investors?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/2/2008 ActivityLatest ResearchRobert A. Stine and Dean P. Foster, Statistics for Business: Decision Making and Analysis (Boston: Pearson, 2017)All ResearchIn the NewsGaming the System: Are Hedge Fund Managers Talented, or Just Good at Fooling Investors?Hedge funds are key players in the world's financial markets, but no one knows exactly what they're up to. Critics and supporters tend to share an assumption, however, that hedge funds are run by talented people who merit their hefty management fees. But new research by Wharton statistics professor Dean P. Foster and Brookings Institution senior fellow H. Peyton Young questions that idea, arguing that it's easy for hedge funds to fool their investors into believing the managers are better than they really are. The industry "risks being inundated by managers who are gaming the system ... which could ultimately lead to a collapse in investor confidence," they say. Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/2/2008All NewsWharton MagazineFinal ExamSuppose you put the following ten lettersS, T, A, T, I, S, T, I, C and Sin a bag. Wharton Magazine - 04/01/2011 Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
