Dylan Small Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Dylan Small Class of 1965 Wharton Professor of StatisticsDepartment Chair Contact Information Primary Email: dsmall@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 573-5241 office Address: 464 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: applications of statistics to public health, design and analysis of experiments and observational studies for comparing treatments, longitudinal data, measurement error, medicine and economics Links: Personal Website Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Stanford University, 2002 BA, Harvard University, 1997 Academic Positions Held Wharton: 2002-present For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Colman Humphrey, Shane T. Jensen, Dylan Small, Rachel Thurston (2020), Urban Vibrancy and Safety in Philadelphia, Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science, (to appear).Bo Zhang, Jordan Weiss, Dylan Small, Qingyuan Zhao (2020), Selecting and Ranking Individualized Treatment Rules With Unmeasured Confounding, Journal of the American Statistical Association, (to appear).Timothy G. Gaulton, Sameer K. Deshpande, Dylan Small, Mark D. Neuman (2020), Observational Study of the Association between Participation in High School Football and Self-Rated Health, Obesity, and Pain in Adulthood, American Journal of Epidemiology, (to appear).Bikram Karmakar, Chyke A. Doubeni, Dylan Small (2020), Evidence Factors in a Case-control Study with Application to the Effect of Flexible Sigmoidoscopy Screening on Colorectal Cancer, Annals of Applied Statistics, (to appear).Bikram Karmakar, Dylan Small, Paul R. Rosenbaum (2020), Using evidence factors to clarify exposure biomarkers, American Journal of Epidemiology, (to appear).Bikram Karmakar and Dylan Small (2020), Assessment of the Extent of Corroboration of an Elaborate Theory of a Causal Hypothesis Using Partial Conjunctions of Evidence Factors, Annals of Statistics, (to appear).Qingyuan Zhao, Jingshu Wang, Gibran Hemani, Jack Bowden, Dylan Small (2020), Statistical Inference in Two-sample Summary-data Mendelian Randomization using Robust Adjusted Profile Score, Annals of Statistics, (in press).Edward H. Kennedy and Dylan Small (2020), Paradoxes in Instrumental Variable Studies with Missing Data and One-sided Noncompliance, Journal of the French Statistical Society, (in press).Hyunseung Kang, Tony Cai, Dylan Small (Under Review), Robust Confidence Intervals for Causal Effects with Possibly Invalid Instruments.Kwonsang Lee, Bhaswar B. Bhattacharya, Jing Qin, Dylan Small (Working), A Nonparametric Likelihood Approach for Inference in Instrumental Variable Models. Teaching Past CoursesAMCS999 - IND STUDY & RESEARCH Study under the direction of a faculty member. BSTA620 - PROBABILITY I This course covers Elements of (non-measure theoretic) probability necessary for the further study of statistics and biostatistics. Topics include set theory, axioms of probability, counting arguments, conditional probability, random variables and distributions, expectations, generating functions, families of distributions, joint and marginal distributions, hierarchical models, covariance and correlation, random sampling, sampling properties of statistics, modes of convergence, and random number generation. Two semesters of calculus (through multivariate calculus), linerar algebra, or permission of the instructor to enroll. BSTA621 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE I This class will cover the fundamental concepts of statistical inference. Topics include sufficiency, consistency, finding and evaluating point estimators, finding and evaluating interval estimators, hypothesis testing, and asymptotic evaluations for point and interval estimation. Prerequisite: If course requirements not met, permission of instructor. BSTA622 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE II This This class will cover the fundamental concepts of statistical inference. Topics include sufficiency, consistency, finding and evaluating point estimators, finding and evaluating interval estimators, hypothesis testing, and asymptotic evaluations for point and interval estimation. BSTA920 - TUTORIAL: RESEARCHBSTA995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT101 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Data summaries and descriptive statistics; introduction to a statistical computer package; Probability: distributions, expectation, variance, covariance, portfolios, central limit theorem; statistical inference of univariate data; Statistical inference for bivariate data: inference for intrinsically linear simple regression models. This course will have a business focus, but is not inappropriate for students in the college. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT112 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Further development of the material in STAT 111, in particular the analysis of variance, multiple regression, non-parametric procedures and the analysis of categorical data. Data analysis via statistical packages. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT475 - SAMPLE SURVEY DESIGN This course will cover the design and analysis of sample surveys. Topics include simple sampling, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, graphics, regression analysis using complex surveys and methods for handling nonresponse bias. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT490 - CAUSAL INFERENCE Questions about cause are at the heart of many everyday decisions and public policies. Does eating an egg every day cause people to live longer or shorter or have no effect? Do gun control laws cause more or less murders or have no effect? Causal inference is the subfield of statistics that considers how we should make inferences about such questions. This course will cover the key concepts and methods of causal inference rigorously. The course is intended for statistics concentrators and minors. Knowledge of R such as that covered in STAT 405 or STAT 470 is recommended. STAT510 - PROBABILITY Elements of matrix algebra. Discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions. Moments and moment generating functions. Joint distributions. Functions and transformations of random variables. Law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. Point estimation: sufficiency, maximum likelihood, minimum variance. Confidence intervals. A one-year course in calculus is recommended. STAT512 - MATHEMATICAL STATISTICS An introduction to the mathematical theory of statistics. Estimation, with a focus on properties of sufficient statistics and maximum likelihood estimators. Hypothesis testing, with a focus on likelihood ratio tests and the consequent development of "t" tests and hypothesis tests in regression and ANOVA. Nonparametric procedures. STAT520 - APPLIED ECONOMETRICS I This is a course in econometrics for graduate students. The goal is to prepare students for empirical research by studying econometric methodology and its theoretical foundations. Students taking the course should be familiar with elementary statistical methodology and basic linear algebra, and should have some programming experience. Topics include conditional expectation and linear projection, asymptotic statistical theory, ordinary least squares estimation, the bootstrap and jackknife, instrumental variables and two-stage least squares, specification tests, systems of equations, generalized least squares, and introduction to use of linear panel data models. STAT521 - APPLIED ECONOMETRICS II Topics include system estimation with instrumental variables, fixed effects and random effects estimation, M-estimation, nonlinear regression, quantile regression, maximum likelihood estimation, generalized method of moments estimation, minimum distance estimation, and binary and multinomial response models. Both theory and applications will be stressed. STAT590 - CAUSAL INFERENCE Questions about cause are at the heart of many everyday decisions and public policies. Does eating an egg every day cause people to live longer or shorter or have no effect? Do gun control laws cause more or less murders or have no effect? Causal inference is the subfield of statistics that considers how we should make inferences about such questions. This course will cover the key concepts and methods of causal inference rigorously. Background in probability and statistics; some knowledge of R is recommended. STAT920 - SAMPLE SURVEY METHODS This course will cover the design and analysis of sample surveys. Topics include simple random sampling, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, graphics, regression analysis using complex surveys and methods for handling nonresponse bias. STAT921 - OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES This course will cover statistical methods for the design and analysis of observational studies. Topics will include the potential outcomes framework for causal inference; randomized experiments; matching and propensity score methods for controlling confounding in observational studies; tests of hidden bias; sensitivity analysis; and instrumental variables. STAT962 - ADV METHODS APPLIED STAT This course is designed for Ph.D. students in statistics and will cover various advanced methods and models that are useful in applied statistics. Topics for the course will include missing data, measurement error, nonlinear and generalized linear regression models, survival analysis, experimental design, longitudinal studies, building R packages and reproducible research. STAT970 - MATHEMATICAL STATISTICS Decision theory and statistical optimality criteria, sufficiency, point estimation and hypothesis testing methods and theory. STAT971 - INTRO TO LINEAR STAT MOD Theory of the Gaussian Linear Model, with applications to illustrate and complement the theory. Distribution theory of standard tests and estimates in multiple regression and ANOVA models. Model selection and its consequences. Random effects, Bayes, empirical Bayes and minimax estimation for such models. Generalized (Log-linear) models for specific non-Gaussian settings. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors IMS Medallion Lecturer, 2022Steve Feinberg Memorial Lecture Series in Advanced Analytics Lecture, Carnegie Mellon University, 2018Fellow, American Statistical Association, 2013 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonSports and Statistics: Correlating Football to Brain Injury, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/21/2017Are Your Customers Clumpy? What Binge-buying Means for Marketers, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/17/2014Bound for the Beach? Bring These Books, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/26/2012Wharton StoriesHow to Use Big Data to Make Cities Safer, Wharton Stories - 04/09/2018 ActivityLatest ResearchColman Humphrey, Shane T. Jensen, Dylan Small, Rachel Thurston (2020), Urban Vibrancy and Safety in Philadelphia, Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science, (to appear).All ResearchIn the NewsSports and Statistics: Correlating Football to Brain InjuryNew Wharton research examines the long-term impact of playing high school or college football. Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/21/2017All NewsWharton MagazineAll Over the MapHow Whartons research programs prepare undergraduates for careers in academia and the private sector. Wharton Magazine - 01/01/2011Wharton StoriesHow to Use Big Data to Make Cities SaferHow can we use publicly available data to understand what makes a city neighborhood safe? To answer this question, Shane Jensen and Dylan Small, Professors in Whartons Statistics Department, are using their skills in big data to reveal patterns of crime and safety in the city. Jonathan Wood, a WSIIReadMore Wharton Stories - 04/09/2018All Stories Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
