Eric J. Tchetgen Tchetgen Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Eric J. Tchetgen Tchetgen Luddy Family Presidents Distinguished ProfessorProfessor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: ett@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: 215-746-4328 office Address: 467 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: Semiparametric theory, nonparametric statistics, causal inference, missing data, and epidemiologic methods. Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education Ph.D., 2006, Harvard University B.S., 1999, Yale University Research My primary area of interest is in semi-parametric efficiency theory with application to causal inference, missing data problems, statistical genetics and mixed model theory. In general, I work on the development of statistical and epidemiologic methods that make efficient use of the information in data collected by scientific investigators, while avoiding unnecessary assumptions about the underlying data generating mechanism. Continue Reading Research Wey Wen Lim, Nancy H L Leung, Sheena G. Sullivan, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, Benjamin J. Cowling (2020), Distinguishing Causation from Correlation in the Use of Correlates of Protection to Evaluate and Develop Influenza Vaccines, American Journal of Epidemiology, (to appear).Tom Chen, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, Rui Wang (2020), A Stochastic Second-Order Generalized Estimating Equations Approach for Estimating Association Parameters, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics , (to appear).Yifan Cui and Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Working), A semiparametric instrumental variable approach to optimal treatment regimes under endogeneity.Caleb H. Miles, Ilya Shpitser, Phyllis Kanki, Seema Meloni, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (2020), On semiparametric estimation of a path-specific effect in the presence of mediator-outcome confounding, Biometrika, 107 (1), pp. 159-172.Lan Liu and Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Working), Regression-based Negative Control of Homophily in Dyadic Peer Effect Analysis.Isabel R. Fulcher, Ilya Shpitser, Stella Marealle, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (2020), Robust inference on population indirect causal effects: the generalized front door criterion, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B, 82 (1), pp. 199-214.Andreas Buja, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, Linda Zhao (2020), Models as ApproximationsRejoinder, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 606-620.Yifan Cui and Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Working), Bias-aware model selection for machine learning of doubly robust functionals.Isabel R. Fulcher, Xu Shi, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (2019), Estimation of natural indirect effects robust to unmeasured confounding and mediator measurement error, Epidemiology, 30 (6), pp. 825-834.Bo Zhang and Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen (Working), A Semiparametric Approach to Model-based Sensitivity Analysis in Observational Studies. Teaching Past CoursesPSYC612 - INT TO NONP & LOGLIN MOD An applied graduate level course for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Covers two unrelated topics: loglinear and logit models for discrete data and nonparametric methods for nonnormal data. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT501 - INT TO NONP & LOGLIN MOD An applied graduate level course for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Covers two unrelated topics: loglinear and logit models for discrete data and nonparametric methods for nonnormal data. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT921 - OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES This course will cover statistical methods for the design and analysis of observational studies. Topics will include the potential outcomes framework for causal inference; randomized experiments; matching and propensity score methods for controlling confounding in observational studies; tests of hidden bias; sensitivity analysis; and instrumental variables. STAT962 - ADV METHODS APPLIED STAT This course is designed for Ph.D. students in statistics and will cover various advanced methods and models that are useful in applied statistics. Topics for the course will include missing data, measurement error, nonlinear and generalized linear regression models, survival analysis, experimental design, longitudinal studies, building R packages and reproducible research. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Myrto Lefkopoulou Distinguished Lectureship, 2020Co-winner of the Society of Epidemiologic Research and American Journal of Epidemiology Article of the Year, 2014 DescriptionFor the paper, Assessment and indirect adjustment for confounding by smoking in cohort studies using relative hazards model with David Richardson, Steve Cole and Dominique Laurier. Career Incubator Award, Harvard School of Public Health, 2013-2014Co-winner of the Kenneth Rothman Epidemiology Prize, 2011 DescriptionFor the paper, The use of negative controls to detect confounding and other sources of error in experimental and observational science. with Marc Lipsitch and Ted Cohen. Best Poster Award: Gene Environment Initiative Symposium, Boston, MA, 2008Yerby Fellowship, Harvard School of Public Health, 2006-2008Mars Scholar, Yale University, 1995-1996 In the News Intensive Anti-H.I.V. Efforts Meet With Mixed Success in Africa, New York Times - 07/17/2019 DescriptionScientists tested a costly approach to curbing the AIDS epidemic: Test everyone in the community, and treat anyone who is infected. ActivityLatest ResearchWey Wen Lim, Nancy H L Leung, Sheena G. Sullivan, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, Benjamin J. Cowling (2020), Distinguishing Causation from Correlation in the Use of Correlates of Protection to Evaluate and Develop Influenza Vaccines, American Journal of Epidemiology, (to appear).All ResearchIn the NewsIntensive Anti-H.I.V. Efforts Meet With Mixed Success in AfricaScientists tested a costly approach to curbing the AIDS epidemic: Test everyone in the community, and treat anyone who is infected. New York Times - 07/17/2019All News Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
