Tony Cai Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Tony Cai Daniel H. Silberberg Professor in Applied Mathematics and Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: tcai@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-8224 office Address: 469 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: functional data analysis, high dimensional inference, large-scale multiple testing, nonparametric function estimation, statistical decision theory, wavelet methodology and applications Links: Personal Website Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors Overview Education PhD, Cornell University, 1996 Career and Recent Professional Awards The 2008 COPSS Presidents Award, Committee of Presidents of Statistical Societies Medallion Lecturer, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 2009 Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (IMS). Academic Positions Held Wharton: 2000-present (named Dorothy Silberberg Professor, 2007). Previous appointment: Purdue University For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Shulei Wang, Tony Cai, Hongzhe Li (2020), Hypothesis Testing for Phylogenetic Composition: A Minimum-cost Flow Perspective, Biometrika, (to appear).Tony Cai, Hongzhe Li, Rong Ma (Under Review), Optimal Structured Principal Subspace Estimation: Metric Entropy and Minimax Rates.Tony Cai and Linjun Zhang (Under Review), A Convex Optimization Approach to High-dimensional Sparse Quadratic Discriminant Analysis.Tony Cai and Hongji Wei (Under Review), Distributed Gaussian Mean Estimation under Communication Constraints: Optimal Rates and Communication-efficient Algorithms.Rong Ma, Tony Cai, Hongzhe Li (2020), Global and Simultaneous Hypothesis Testing for High-Dimensional Logistic Regression Models, Journal of the American Statistical Association, (to appear).Anru Zhang, Tony Cai, Yihong Wu (Under Review), Heteroskedastic PCA: Algorithm, Optimality, and Applications.Tony Cai and Yihong Wu (2020), Statistical and Computational Limits for Sparse Matrix Detection, Annals of Statistics, (to appear).Tony Cai, Yichen Wang, Linjun Zhang (Under Review), The Cost of Privacy: Optimal Rates of Convergence for Parameter Estimation with Differential Privacy.Hyunseung Kang, Tony Cai, Dylan Small (Under Review), Robust Confidence Intervals for Causal Effects with Possibly Invalid Instruments.Tianxi Cai, Tony Cai, Zijian Guo (Under Review), Individualized Treatment Selection: An Optimal Hypothesis Testing Approach In High-dimensional Models. Teaching Current CoursesSTAT430 - Probability Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT430001STAT430002STAT972 - Adv Topics In Math Stat A continuation of STAT 970. STAT972001Past CoursesAMCS999 - IND STUDY & RESEARCH Study under the direction of a faculty member. BSTA620 - PROBABILITY I This course covers Elements of (non-measure theoretic) probability necessary for the further study of statistics and biostatistics. Topics include set theory, axioms of probability, counting arguments, conditional probability, random variables and distributions, expectations, generating functions, families of distributions, joint and marginal distributions, hierarchical models, covariance and correlation, random sampling, sampling properties of statistics, modes of convergence, and random number generation. Two semesters of calculus (through multivariate calculus), linerar algebra, or permission of the instructor to enroll. STAT111 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Introduction to concepts in probability. Basic statistical inference procedures of estimation, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing directed towards applications in science and medicine. The use of the JMP statistical package. Knowledge of high school algebra is required for this course. STAT430 - PROBABILITY Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT431 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. This course does not have business applications but has significant overlap with STAT 101 and 102. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT510 - PROBABILITY Elements of matrix algebra. Discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions. Moments and moment generating functions. Joint distributions. Functions and transformations of random variables. Law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. Point estimation: sufficiency, maximum likelihood, minimum variance. Confidence intervals. A one-year course in calculus is recommended. STAT915 - NONPARAMETRIC INFERENCE Statistical inference when the functional form of the distribution is not specified. Nonparametric function estimation, density estimation, survival analysis, contingency tables, association, and efficiency. STAT972 - ADV TOPICS IN MATH STAT A continuation of STAT 970. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Peter Whittle Lecture, Cambridge University, 2018Hermann Otto Hirschfeld Lectures, Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin, 2012Forum Lecture, 28th European Meeting of Statisticians, Piraeus, Greece, 2010Medallion Lecturer, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 2009The COPSS Presidents Award, Committee of Presidents of Statistical Societies, 2008Fellow, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 2006International Chinese Statistical Association Outstanding Service Award, 2019International Chinese Statistical Association Distinguished Achievement Award, 2019Laplace Lecture, Bernoulli Society, 10th World Congress in Probability & Statistics, 2020 ActivityLatest ResearchShulei Wang, Tony Cai, Hongzhe Li (2020), Hypothesis Testing for Phylogenetic Composition: A Minimum-cost Flow Perspective, Biometrika, (to appear).All ResearchWharton MagazineFinal ExamThink you could still ace your way through Wharton? Well, heres your chance to prove it. Wharton Magazine - 09/01/2010 Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
