Edward I. George Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Edward I. George Universal Furniture ProfessorProfessor of StatisticsProfessor of Economics Contact Information Primary Email: edgeorge@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-8229 office Address: 446 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: hierarchical modeling, model uncertainty, shrinkage estimation, treed modeling, variable selection, wavelet regression Links: CV Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Stanford University, 1981 MS, SUNY at Stony Brook, 1976 AB, Cornell University, 1972 Career and Recent Professional Awards Elected Fellow of the International Society for Bayesian Analysis (2014); Elected Fellow of the American Statistical Association (1997); Elected Fellowof the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (1995). CBA Foundation Award for Outstanding Research Contributions (1998) and the CBA Foundation Award for Research Excellence (1995), The University of Texas at Austin. Excellence in Education Award (2001) and the Joe D. Beasley Award for Teaching Excellence (1996), The University of Texas at Austin McKinsey Award for Excellence in Teaching (1987) and the Emory Williams Award for Excellence in Teaching (1987), The University of Chicago. Academic Positions Held Wharton: 2001-present (Chairperson, Statistics Department, 2008-2014; named Universal Furniture Professor, 2002) Previous appointment: University of Texas at Austin, University of Chicago. Visiting Appointments: Cambridge University; University of Paris; University of Valencia Professional Leadership Editor, Annals of Statistics, 2016-2018;Executive Editor, Statistical Science, 2004-2007. For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research M.T. Pratola, H. A. Chipman, Edward I. George, R. E. McCulloch (2020), Heteroscedastic BART via Multiplicative Regression Trees, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, (to appear).Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2020), A Model Free Perspective for Linear Regression: Uniform-in-model Bounds for Post Selection Inference, Econometric Theory, (to appear).Abstract: For the last two decades, high-dimensional data and methods have proliferated throughout the literature. The classical technique of linear regression, however, has not lost its touch in applications. Most high-dimensional estimation techniques can be seen as variable selection tools which lead to a smaller set of variables where classical linear regression technique applies. In this paper, we prove estimation error and linear representation bounds for the linear regression estimator uniformly over (many) subsets of variables. Based on deterministic inequalities, our results provide good rates when applied to both independent and dependent data. These results are useful in correctly interpreting the linear regression estimator obtained after exploring the data and also in post model-selection inference. All the results are derived under no model assumptions and are non-asymptotic in nature.Richard A. Berk, Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Edward I. George, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Weijie Su, Linda Zhao (2020), Assumption Lean Regression, American Statistician, (in press).Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2020), Valid Post-selection Inference in Assumption-lean Linear Regression, Annals of Statistics, (to appear).Abstract: This paper provides multiple approaches to perform valid post-selection inference in an assumption-lean regression analysis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that provides valid post-selection inference for regression analysis in such a general settings that include independent, m-dependent random variables.Andreas Buja, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, Linda Zhao (2020), Models as ApproximationsRejoinder, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 606-620.Yuehan Yang, Ji Zhu, Edward I. George (Under Review), MSP: A Multi-step Screening Procedure for Sparse Recovery.Gemma Moran, Veronika Rockova, Edward I. George (2019), Variance Prior Forms for High-Dimensional Bayesian Variable Selection, Bayesian Analysis, 14 (4), pp. 1091-1119.Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Emil Pitkin, Mikhail Traskin, Kai Zhang, Linda Zhao (2019), Models as Approximations I: Consequences Illustrated with Linear Regression, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 523-544.Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2019), Models as Approximations II: A Model-Free Theory of Parametric Regression, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 345-365.Cecilia Balocchi, Sameer K. Deshpande, Edward I. George, Shane T. Jensen (Under Review), Crime in Philadelphia: Bayesian Clustering with Particle Optimization. Teaching Past CoursesBSTA622 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE II This This class will cover the fundamental concepts of statistical inference. Topics include sufficiency, consistency, finding and evaluating point estimators, finding and evaluating interval estimators, hypothesis testing, and asymptotic evaluations for point and interval estimation. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT613 - REGR ANALYSIS FOR BUS This course provides the fundamental methods of statistical analysis, the art and science if extracting information from data. The course will begin with a focus on the basic elements of exploratory data analysis, probability theory and statistical inference. With this as a foundation, it will proceed to explore the use of the key statistical methodology known as regression analysis for solving business problems, such as the prediction of future sales and the response of the market to price changes. The use of regression diagnostics and various graphical displays supplement the basic numerical summaries and provides insight into the validity of the models. Specific important topics covered include least squares estimation, residuals and outliers, tests and confidence intervals, correlation and autocorrelation, collinearity, and randomization. The presentation relies upon computer software for most of the needed calculations, and the resulting style focuses on construction of models, interpretation of results, and critical evaluation of assumptions. STAT621 - ACC REGRESSION ANALYSIS STAT 621 is intended for students with recent, practical knowledge of the use of regression analysis in the context of business applications. This course covers the material of STAT 613, but omits the foundations to focus on regression modeling. The course reviews statistical hypothesis testing and confidence intervals for the sake of standardizing terminology and introducing software, and then moves into regression modeling. The pace presumes recent exposure to both the theory and practice of regression and will not be accommodating to students who have not seen or used these methods previously. The interpretation of regression models within the context of applications will be stressed, presuming knowledge of the underlying assumptions and derivations. The scope of regression modeling that is covered includes multiple regression analysis with categorical effects, regression diagnostic procedures, interactions, and time series structure. The presentation of the course relies on computer software that will be introduced in the initial lectures. Recent exposure to the theory and practice of regression modeling is recommended. STAT899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor, the department MBA advisor and course coordinator required to enroll. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Cornell University Distinguished Alumni for the Department of Statistical Sciences, 2018Simons Fellowship, Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Cambridge, 2018Bohrer Lecturer, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2017Fellow, International Society for Bayesian Analysis, 2014Challis Lecturer and Award for Outstanding Contributions to Statistics, University of Florida, 2012Geisser Distinguished Lecturer, University of Minnesota, 2012Palmetto Lecturer, University of South Carolina, 2012Loeb Lecturer, Washington University in St. Louis, 2011Medallion Lecturer, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 2010Penn IUR Faculty Fellow, 2009-2010Hartley Memorial Lecturer, Texas A&M University, 2007Wharton Core Professor Award, Tough But Well Thank in Five Years, 2004Wharton Core Professor Award, Goes Above and Beyond, 2004ISI Highly Cited Researcher in Mathematics, 2004Excellence in Education Award, The University of Texas at Austin, 2001Faculty Honor Roll for Core Class Teaching, The University of Texas at Austin, 2000Lawrence Baxter Memorial Lecturer, SUNY at Stony Brook, 1998Deans Fellow, The University of Texas at Austin, 1998-1999CBA Foundation Award for Outstanding Research Contributions, The University of Texas at Austin, 1998Fellow, American Statistical Association, 1997Fellow, Center for Management of Operations and Logistics, The University of Texas at Austin, 1996Member, International Statistical Institute, 1996Joe D. Beasley Award for Teaching Excellence, The University of Texas at Austin, 1996Fellow, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 1995CBA Foundation Award for Research Excellence, The University of Texas at Austin, 1995GBC Award for Excellence in Teaching of the Core Curriculum, Graduate School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin, 1993Spurgeon Bell Centennial Fellowship, Graduate School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin, 1993-1994McKinsey Award for Excellence in Teaching, The University of Chicago, 1987The Emory Williams Award for Excellence in Teaching, The University of Chicago, 1987DeGroot Lecture, Department of Statistics, Carnegie Mellon University, 2020Yakovlev Colloquium, Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, University of Rochester, 2020 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonEvery Time a Bell Rings , Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/8/2013 ActivityLatest ResearchM.T. Pratola, H. A. Chipman, Edward I. George, R. E. McCulloch (2020), Heteroscedastic BART via Multiplicative Regression Trees, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, (to appear).All ResearchIn the NewsEvery Time a Bell Rings Its a Wonderful Life is a Christmas classic, but Wharton statistics professor Edward George says it should also be required viewing for business leaders. Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/8/2013All News Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
