James E. Johndrow Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert James E. Johndrow Assistant Professor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: johndrow@wharton.upenn.edu office Address: 455 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: Markov chain Monte Carolo, scalable Bayesian computation, high dimensional statistics, algorithmic fairness Overview Research Teaching Overview Education Ph.D. in Statistical Science, Duke University, 2015 M.S. in Statistical Science, Duke University, 2012 B.A. in Chemistry, Amherst College, 2003 Academic Positions Held Stein Fellow/Lecturer, Department of Statistics, Stanford University, 2016-2019 Continue Reading Research James Johndrow, Paulo Orenstein, Anirban Bhattacharya (2020), Bayes Shrinkage at GWAS scale: Convergence and Approximation Theory of a Scalable MCMC Algorithm for the Horseshoe Prior, Journal of Machine Learning Research, (to appear).D. B. Dunson and James Johndrow (2020), The Hastings algorithm at fifty, Biometrika, 107 (1), pp. 1-23.Bamdad Hosseini and James Johndrow (Working), Spectral gaps and error estimates for infinite-dimensional Metropolis-Hastings with non-Gaussian priors.James Johndrow, Aaron Smith, Natesh Pillai, David B. Dunson (2019), MCMC for Imbalanced Categorical Data, Journal of the American Statistical Association, 114 (527), pp. 1394-1403.James Johndrow, Kristian Lum, Daniel Manrique-Vallier (2019), Low-risk population size estimates in the presence of capture heterogeneity, Biometrika, 106 (1), pp. 197-210.James Johndrow and Kristian Lum (2019), An algorithm for removing sensitive information: Application to race-independent recidivism prediction, Annals of Applied Statistics, 13 (1), pp. 189-220.James Johndrow and Anirban Bhattacharya (2019), Optimal Gaussian Approximations to the Posterior for Log-Linear Models with DiaconisYlvisaker Priors, Bayesian Analysis, 13 (1), pp. 201-223.James Johndrow and Julia A. Palacios (2019), Exact limits of inference in coalescent models, Theoretical Population Biology, 125, pp. 75-93.James Johndrow, Anirban Bhattacharya, David B. Dunson (2019), Tensor decompositions and sparse log-linear models, The Annals of Statistics, 45 (1), pp. 1-38.Emanuele Aliverti, Kristian Lum, James Johndrow, David B. Dunson (Working), Removing the influence of a group variable in high-dimensional predictive modelling. Teaching Current CoursesSTAT470 - Data Analy & Stat Comp This course will introduce a high-level programming language, called R, that is widely used for statistical data analysis. Using R, we will study and practice the following methodologies: data cleaning, feature extraction; web scrubbing, text analysis; data visualization; fitting statistical models; simulation of probability distributions and statistical models; statistical inference methods that use simulations (bootstrap, permutation tests). Prerequisite: Waiving the Statistics Core completely if prerequisites are not met. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT470001 ( Syllabus )STAT470002 ( Syllabus )STAT470003 ( Syllabus )Past CoursesSTAT405 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT470 - DATA ANALY & STAT COMP This course will introduce a high-level programming language, called R, that is widely used for statistical data analysis. Using R, we will study and practice the following methodologies: data cleaning, feature extraction; web scrubbing, text analysis; data visualization; fitting statistical models; simulation of probability distributions and statistical models; statistical inference methods that use simulations (bootstrap, permutation tests). Prerequisite: Waiving the Statistics Core completely if prerequisites are not met. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT705 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. ActivityLatest ResearchJames Johndrow, Paulo Orenstein, Anirban Bhattacharya (2020), Bayes Shrinkage at GWAS scale: Convergence and Approximation Theory of a Scalable MCMC Algorithm for the Horseshoe Prior, Journal of Machine Learning Research, (to appear).All Research Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
