Jean Lemaire Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Jean Lemaire Harry J. Loman Professor Emeritus of Insurance and Risk ManagementProfessor Emeritus of StatisticsProfessor Emeritus of Actuarial ScienceProfessor Emeritus of Business Economics and Public Policy Contact Information Primary Email: lemaire@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-7765 office Address: 458 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: evaluation of adverse selection in insurance markets due to genetic testing, merit-rating systems in automobile insurance, the impact of firearm deaths on life expectancies in the united states Links: CV Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education BS, Applied Mathematics, 1969, Summa Cum Laude, Universit Libre de Bruxelles (U.L.B.) Teaching Certificate, 1969, Summa Cum Laude, U.L.B. MS, Actuarial Science, 1972, Summa Cum Laude, U.L.B. Operations Research Certificate, 1972, U.L.B. Ph.D., Mathematics, 1973, Summa Cum Laude, U.L.B. Associate, Society of Actuaries, 1997 Jean Lemaire is the Harry J. Loman Professor of Insurance and Risk Management at the Wharton School. He holds a BS in mathematics, a MS in actuarial science, and a Ph.D. in applied mathematics, all obtained at the Free University of Brussels. He joined the Wharton School in 1987 as Director of the Actuarial Science Program. Jean Lemaire has published over 100 research papers and books in game theory and actuarial science. He has lectured on insurance regulation and actuarial science in over 60 countries. His 1985 book Automobile Insurance: Actuarial Models was the insurance book-of-the-year both in Europe and in the US. His books have been translated in French, Spanish, Mandarin, Russian, Japanese, and Korean. Jean Lemaire is a winner of the 1988 International Prize of the Italian Academy of Science, the most important prize awarded to insurance researchers in terms of amount and prestige. In 2008 he was elected Honorary Chairman of ASTIN, the non-life section of the International Actuarial Association, and received the Wharton Schools Hauck Award for excellence in teaching. His current research interests include the study of merit-rating systems in automobile insurance, the impact of genetic testing on insurance, and the consequences of gun violence. Continue Reading Research Jean Lemaire, Sojung C. Park, Kili Wang (2016), Further Comments on the Paper Setting a BonusMalus Scale in the Presence of Other Rating Factors by Taylor, European Actuarial Journal, 6 (2), pp. 495-499.Sojung Carol Park, Jean Lemaire, Xiaoying Xie (2016), The Opaqueness of Structured Bonds: Evidence from the U.S. Insurance Industry, The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance - Issues and Practice, 41 (4), pp. 650-676.Jean Lemaire, Sojung Carol Park, Kili C. Wang (2016), The Use of Annual Mileage as a Rating Variable, ASTIN Bulletin, 46 (1), pp. 39-69.Jean Lemaire, Sojung Carol Park, Kili C. Wang (2015), The Impact of Covariates on a BonusMalus System: An Application of Taylors Model, European Actuarial Journal, 5 (1), pp. 1-10.Jean Lemaire (2014), Issues in Bonus-Malus Systems Design, The Journal of Risk Management, 25, pp. 1-22.Joelle Fong, Jean Lemaire, Yiu Kuen Tse (2014), Improving Moneys Worth Ratio Calculations: The Case of Singapores Pension Annuities, Asia-Pacific Journal of Risk and Insurance, 8 (1), pp. 1-26.Abstract: This paper contributes to a better understanding of the risks involved in a life annuity investment. We study the full distribution of weighted annuity benefits and quantify risk measures such as dispersion and skewness, thereby extending the usefulness of the popular moneys worth valuation framework for life annuities. Using data from pension annuities in Singapore, we also introduce several risk measures that might appeal to less financially sophisticated retirees. A more detailed and accurate picture of the risk of investing in life annuities emerges, enabling prospective annuitants to differentiate among products that may appear seemingly uniform in terms of moneys worth, but vary widely in terms of their risk attributes.Sojung Carol Park and Jean Lemaire (2012), The Impact of Culture on the Demand for Non-Life Insurance, ASTIN Bulletin, 42 (2), pp. 501-527.S. Park, Jean Lemaire, Chua, C.T. (2010), Is the Design of Bonus-Malus Systems Influenced by Insurance Maturity or National Culture Evidence from Asia, Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance: Issues and Practice, 35.T. Richmond and Jean Lemaire (2008), Years of Life Lost due to Gunshot Injury to the Spinal Cord and Brain, American Journal of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 87, pp. 609-618.J Weiner, D.J. Wiebe, T. Richmond, K Beam, A Berman, Charles Branas, R Cheney, T. Coyne-Beasley, J. Firman, M. Fishbein, S. Hargarten, D. Hemenway, R Jeffcoat, D. Kennedy, C.S. Koper, Jean Lemaire, M. Miller, JA Roth, C.W. Schwab, R Spitzer, S. Teret, J. Vernick, D. Webster (2007), Reducing Firearm Violence: A Research Agenda, Injury Prevention, 13, pp. 80-84. Teaching Past CoursesBEPP451 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI I This course is the usual entry point in the actuarial science program. It is required for students who plan to concentrate or minor in actuarial science. It can also be taken by others interested in the mathematics of personal finance and the use of mortality tables. For future actuaries, it provides the necessary knowledge of compound interest and its applications, and basic life contingencies definition to be used throughout their studies. Non-actuaries will be introduced to practical applications of finance mathematics, such as loan amortization and bond pricing, and premium calculation of typical life insurance contracts. Main topics include annuities, loans and bonds; basic principles of life contingencies and determination of annuity and insurance benefits and premiums. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. BEPP452 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI II This specialized course is usually only taken by Wharton students who plan to concentrate in actuarial science and Penn students who plan to minor in actuarial mathematics. It provides a comprehensive analysis of advanced life contingencies problems such as reserving, multiple life functions, multiple decrement theory with application to the valuation of pension plans. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. BEPP453 - ACTUARIAL STATISTICS This course covers models for insurer's losses, and applications of Markov chains. Poisson processes, including extensions such as non-homogeneous, compound, and mixed Poisson processes are studied in detail. The compound model is then used to establish the distribution of losses. An extensive section on Markov chains provides the theory to forecast future states of the process, as well as numerous applications of Markov chains to insurance, finance, and genetics. The course is abundantly illustrated by examples from the insurance and finance literature. While most of the students taking the course are future actuaries, other students interested in applications of statistics may discover in class many fascinating applications of stochastic processes and Markov chains. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. BEPP851 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI I This course is the usual entry point in the actuarial science program. It is required for students who plan to concentrate or minor in actuarial science. It can also be taken by others interested in the mathematics of personal finance and the use of mortality tables. For future actuaries, it provides the necessary knowledge of compound interest and its applications, and basic life contingencies definition to be used throughout their studies. Non-actuaries will be introduced to practical applications of finance mathematics, such as loan amortization and bond pricing, and premium calculation of typical life insurance contracts. Main topics include annuities, loans and bonds; basic principles of life contingencies and determination of annuity and insurance benefits and premiums. Prerequisite: One semester of calculus. BEPP852 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI II This specialized course is usually only taken by Wharton students who plan to concentrate in actuarial science and Penn students who plan to minor in actuarial mathematics. It provides a comprehensive analysis of advanced life contingencies problems such as reserving, multiple life functions, multiple decrement theory with application to the valuation of pension plans. BEPP853 - ACTUARIAL STATISTICS This course covers models for insurer's losses, and applications of Markov chains. Poisson processes, including extensions such as non-homogeneous, compound, and mixed Poisson processes are studied in detail. The compound model is then used to establish the distribution of losses. An extensive section on Markov chains provides the theory to forecast future states of the process, as well as numerous applications of Markov chains to insurance, finance, and genetics. The course is abundantly illustrated by examples from the insurance and finance literature. While most of the students taking the course are future actuaries, other students interested in applications of statistics may discover in class many fascinating applications of stochastic processes and Markov chains. Prerequisite: Two semesters of statistics. EAS 499 - SENIOR CAPSTONE The Senior Capstone Project is required for all BAS degree students, in lieu of the senior design course. The Capstone Project provides an opportunity for the student to apply the theoretical ideas and tools learned from other courses. The project is usually applied, rather than theoretical, exercise, and should focus on a real world problem related to the career goals of the student. The one-semester project may be completed in either the fall or sprong term of the senior year, and must be done under the supervision of a sponsoring faculty member. To register for this course, the student must submit a detailed proposal, signed by the supervising professor, and the student's faculty advisor, to the Office of Academic Programs two weeks prior to the start of the term. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT451 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI I This course is the usual entry point in the actuarial science program. It is required for students who plan to concentrate or minor in actuarial science. It can also be taken by others interested in the mathematics of personal finance and the use of mortality tables. For future actuaries, it provides the necessary knowledge of compound interest and its applications, and basic life contingencies definition to be used throughout their studies. Non-actuaries will be introduced to practical applications of finance mathematics, such as loan amortization and bond pricing, and premium calculation of typical life insurance contracts. Main topics include annuities, loans and bonds; basic principles of life contingencies and determination of annuity and insurance benefits and premiums. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT452 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI II This specialized course is usually only taken by Wharton students who plan to concentrate in actuarial science and Penn students who plan to minor in actuarial mathematics. It provides a comprehensive analysis of advanced life contingencies problems such as reserving, multiple life functions, multiple decrement theory with application to the valuation of pension plans. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT453 - ACTUARIAL STATISTICS This course covers models for insurer's losses, and applications of Markov chains. Poisson processes, including extensions such as non-homogeneous, compound, and mixed Poisson processes are studied in detail. The compound model is then used to establish the distribution of losses. An extensive section on Markov chains provides the theory to forecast future states of the process, as well as numerous applications of Markov chains to insurance, finance, and genetics. The course is abundantly illustrated by examples from the insurance and finance literature. While most of the students taking the course are future actuaries, other students interested in applications of statistics may discover in class many fascinating applications of stochastic processes and Markov chains. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT851 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI I This course is the usual entry point in the actuarial science program. It is required for students who plan to concentrate or minor in actuarial science. It can also be taken by others interested in the mathematics of personal finance and the use of mortality tables. For future actuaries, it provides the necessary knowledge of compound interest and its applications, and basic life contingencies definition to be used throughout their studies. Non-actuaries will be introduced to practical applications of finance mathematics, such as loan amortization and bond pricing, and premium calculation of typical life insurance contracts. Main topics include annuities, loans and bonds; basic principles of life contingencies and determination of annuity and insurance benefits and premiums. Prerequisite: One semester of calculus. STAT852 - FUND OF ACTUARIAL SCI II This specialized course is usually only taken by Wharton students who plan to concentrate in actuarial science and Penn students who plan to minor in actuarial mathematics. It provides a comprehensive analysis of advanced life contingencies problems such as reserving, multiple life functions, multiple decrement theory with application to the valuation of pension plans. STAT853 - ACTUARIAL STATISTICS This course covers models for insurer's losses, and applications of Markov chains. Poisson processes, including extensions such as non-homogeneous, compound, and mixed Poisson processes are studied in detail. The compound model is then used to establish the distribution of losses. An extensive section on Markov chains provides the theory to forecast future states of the process, as well as numerous applications of Markov chains to insurance, finance, and genetics. The course is abundantly illustrated by examples from the insurance and finance literature. While most of the students taking the course are future actuaries, other students interested in applications of statistics may discover in class many fascinating applications of stochastic processes and Markov chains. Prerequisite: Two semesters of statistics. Awards and Honors Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2012Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2011Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2008Wharton Hauck Award for Excellence in Teaching by a Tenured Faculty Member, 2008Elected honorary Chairman of ASTIN, 2008Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2007Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2006Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2004Elected Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, 2001Best feature paper award, Journal of Risk and Insurance, 2000Clarence Arthur Kulp Memorial Award, American Risk and Insurance Association, 1997International INA-Lincei Prize, Italian Academy of Sciences, 1988Clarence Arthur Kulp Memorial Award, American Risk and Insurance Association, 1987Ernst Meyer Prize, Geneva Association, 1986 In the News Efforts Are Growing to Trim the Fat from Employees and Employers Health Care Costs, Knowlege@Wharton - 11/01/2006Insurance, Life Expectancy and the Cost of Firearm Deaths in the U.S., Knowlege@Wharton - 06/15/2005In the Tsunamis Wake: How Best to Respond, Knowlege@Wharton - 01/28/2005How Will Insurers Deal With Their Most Expensive Catastrophe?, Knowlege@Wharton - 09/26/2001Genetic Testings Uneasy Relationship with Life Insurance, Knowlege@Wharton - 03/01/2000Knowledge @ WhartonBooks for the Beach, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/25/2013The Link between Smaller Sodas and Shrinking Waistlines, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/4/2012Bursting the Bubble on the NYC Soda Ban, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/1/2012Efforts Are Growing to Trim the Fat from Employees and Employers Health Care Costs, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/1/2006Insurance, Life Expectancy and the Cost of Firearm Deaths in the U.S., Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/15/2005In the Tsunamis Wake: How Best to Respond, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/28/2005How Will Insurers Deal With Their Most Expensive Catastrophe?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 9/26/2001Genetic Testings Uneasy Relationship with Life Insurance, Knowledge @ Wharton - 3/1/2000 ActivityLatest ResearchJean Lemaire, Sojung C. Park, Kili Wang (2016), Further Comments on the Paper Setting a BonusMalus Scale in the Presence of Other Rating Factors by Taylor, European Actuarial Journal, 6 (2), pp. 495-499.All ResearchIn the NewsBooks for the BeachNot sure what books to pack when heading for the beach this summer? We asked Wharton faculty to offer some suggestions. Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/25/2013All News Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
