Zongming Ma Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Zongming Ma Associate Professor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: zongming@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-9796 office Address: 468 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: high-dimensional statistics, machine learning, network data analysis, nonparametric statistics Links: Personal Website Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors Overview Education PhD, Stanford University, 2010 BS, Peking University, 2005. Academic Positions Held Wharton: 2010-present For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Chao Gao and Zongming Ma (2020), Minimax rates in network analysis: Graphon estimation, community detection and hypothesis testing, Statistical Science, (to appear).Zhuang Ma, Zongming Ma, Tingni Sun (2020), Adaptive estimation in two-way sparse reduced-rank regression, Statistica Sinica, (to appear).Cedric Huchuan Xia, Zongming Ma, Zaixu Cui, Danilo Bzdok, Bertrand Thirion, Danielle S. Bassett, Theodore D. Satterthwaite, Russell T. Shinohara, Daniela M. Witten (2020), Multiscale network regression for brainphenotype associations, Human Brain Mapping, (to appear).Zhuang Ma, Zongming Ma, Hongsong Yuan (2020), Universal latent space model fitting for large networks with edge covariates, Journal of Machine Learning Research, 21 (4), pp. 1-67.Jian Ding, Zongming Ma, Yihong Wu, Jiaming Xu (Under Review), Efficient random graph matching via degree profiles.Chao Gao, Zongming Ma, Ye Zhang, Harrison H. Zhou (2018), Community detection in degree-corrected block models, The Annals of Statistics, 46 (5), pp. 2153-2185.Cedric Xia, Zongming Ma, Rastko Ciric, Shi Gu, Richard F. Betzel, Antonia N. Kaczkurkin, Monica E. Calkins, Philip A. Cook, Angel Garcia de la Garza, Simon Vandekar, Tyler M. Moore, David R. Roalf, Kosha Ruparel, Daniel H. Wolf, Christos Davatzikos, Ruben C. Gur, Raquel E. Gur, Russell T. Shinohara, Danielle S. Bassett, Theodore D. Satterthwaite (2018), Linked dimensions of psychopathology and connectivity in functional brain networks, Nature Communications, 9, p. 3003.Debapratim Banerjee and Zongming Ma (Working), Asymptotic normality and analysis of variance of log-likelihood ratios in spiked random matrix models.Chao Gao, Zongming Ma, Harrison H. Zhou (2017), Sparse CCA: Adaptive estimation and computational barriers, The Annals of Statistics, 45 (5), pp. 2074-2101.Edward Kennedy, Zongming Ma, Matthew McHugh, Dylan Small (2017), Nonparametric methods for doubly robust estimation of continuous treatment effects, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology), 79 (4), pp. 1229-1245. Teaching Current CoursesSTAT431 - Statistical Inference Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. This course does not have business applications but has significant overlap with STAT 101 and 102. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT431001 ( Syllabus )STAT431002 ( Syllabus )STAT431003 ( Syllabus )Past CoursesSTAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT431 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. This course does not have business applications but has significant overlap with STAT 101 and 102. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT432 - MATHEMATICAL STATISTICS An introduction to the mathematical theory of statistics. Estimation, with a focus on properties of sufficient statistics and maximum likelihood estimators. Hypothesis testing, with a focus on likelihood ratio tests and the consequent development of "t" tests and hypothesis tests in regression and ANOVA. Nonparametric procedures. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT515 - ADV STAT INFERENCE I STAT 515 is aimed at first-year Ph.D. students and builds a good foundation in statistical inference from the first principles of probability. STAT925 - MULTIVARIATE ANALY: THEO This is a course that prepares PhD students in statistics for research in multivariate statistics and high dimensional statistical inference. Topics from classical multivariate statistics include the multivariate normal distribution and the Wishart distribution; estimation and hypothesis testing of mean vectors and covariance matrices; principal component analysis, canonical correlation analysis and discriminant analysis; etc. Topics from modern multivariate statistics include the Marcenko-Pastur law, the Tracy-Widom law, nonparametric estimation and hypothesis testing of high-dimensional covariance matrices, high-dimensional principal component analysis, etc. STAT971 - INTRO TO LINEAR STAT MOD Theory of the Gaussian Linear Model, with applications to illustrate and complement the theory. Distribution theory of standard tests and estimates in multiple regression and ANOVA models. Model selection and its consequences. Random effects, Bayes, empirical Bayes and minimax estimation for such models. Generalized (Log-linear) models for specific non-Gaussian settings. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Sloan Research Fellowship, 2016NSF CAREER Award, 2014 ActivityLatest ResearchChao Gao and Zongming Ma (2020), Minimax rates in network analysis: Graphon estimation, community detection and hypothesis testing, Statistical Science, (to appear).All Research Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
