Shane T. Jensen Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Shane T. Jensen Professor of StatisticsStatistics PhD Coordinator for Admissions Contact Information Primary Email: stjensen@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 573-2211 office Address: 463 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: applications in bioinformatics, bayesian multi-level modeling, statistical computing and mcmc methods, statistics in sports Links: CV Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Harvard University, 2004 AM, Harvard University, 2001 MS, McGill University, 1999 BS, McGill University, 1997 Career and Recent Professional Awards Leonard J. Savage Award for best thesis in Application Methodology from the International Society for Bayesian Analysis (2005) David W. Hauck Award for Outstanding Teaching (2009) Sports in Statistics Award for Contributions to the Statistics in Sports Community, American Statistical Association (2011) Academic Positions Held Wharton: 2004-present For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Colman Humphrey, Shane T. Jensen, Dylan Small, Rachel Thurston (2020), Urban Vibrancy and Safety in Philadelphia, Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science, (to appear).Cecilia Balocchi and Shane T. Jensen (2019), Spatial modeling of trends in crime over time in Philadelphia, Annals of Applied Statistics, 13 (4), pp. 2235-2259.Cecilia Balocchi, Sameer K. Deshpande, Edward I. George, Shane T. Jensen (Under Review), Crime in Philadelphia: Bayesian Clustering with Particle Optimization.Jose Marcio Luna, Efstathios D. Gennatas, Lyle H. Ungar, Eric Eaton, Eric S. Diffenderfer, Shane T. Jensen, Charles B. Simone II, Jerome H. Friedman, Timothy D. Solberg, Gilmer Valdes (2019), Building more accurate decision trees with the additive tree, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 116 (40), pp. 19887-19893.Colman Humphrey, Dylan Small, Shane T. Jensen, Kevin Volpp, David A. Asch, Jingsan Zhu, Andrea B. Troxel (2019), Modeling Lottery Incentives for Daily Adherence, Statistics in Medicine, 38 (15), pp. 2847-2867.Jason Mulholland and Shane T. Jensen (2019), Optimizing the allocation of funds of an NFL team under the salary cap, International Journal of Forecasting, 35 (2), pp. 767-775.Namita Nandakumar and Shane T. Jensen (2019), Historical Perspectives and Current Directions in Hockey Analytics, Annual Review of Statistics and Its Applications, 6, pp. 19-36.Gilmer Valdes, Albert J. Chang, Yannet Interian, Kenton Owens, Shane T. Jensen, Lyle Ungar, Adam Cunha, Timothy D. Solberg, I-Chow Hsu (2018), Salvage HDR Brachytherapy: Multiple Hypothesis Testing Versus Machine Learning Analysis, International Journal of Radiation Oncology - Biology - Physics, 101 (3), pp. 694-703.Mulholland, J. and Shane T. Jensen (2018), Predicting the future of free agent receivers and tight ends in the NFL, Statistica Applicata - Italian Journal of Applied Statistics, 30 (2), pp. 269-294.Vasant Kearney, Timothy Solberg, Shane T. Jensen, Joey Cheung, Cynthia Chuang, Gilmer Valdes (2018), Correcting TG 119 confidence limits, Medical Physics, 45 (3), pp. 1001-1008. Teaching Past CoursesEAS 499 - SENIOR CAPSTONE The Senior Capstone Project is required for all BAS degree students, in lieu of the senior design course. The Capstone Project provides an opportunity for the student to apply the theoretical ideas and tools learned from other courses. The project is usually applied, rather than theoretical, exercise, and should focus on a real world problem related to the career goals of the student. The one-semester project may be completed in either the fall or sprong term of the senior year, and must be done under the supervision of a sponsoring faculty member. To register for this course, the student must submit a detailed proposal, signed by the supervising professor, and the student's faculty advisor, to the Office of Academic Programs two weeks prior to the start of the term. GCB 699 - LAB ROTATIONGCB 995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT111 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Introduction to concepts in probability. Basic statistical inference procedures of estimation, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing directed towards applications in science and medicine. The use of the JMP statistical package. Knowledge of high school algebra is required for this course. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT442 - INTRO BAYES DATA ANALYS The course will introduce data analysis from the Bayesian perspective to undergraduate students. We will cover important concepts in Bayesian probability modeling as well as estimation using both optimization and simulation-based strategies. Key topics covered in the course include hierarchical models, mixture models, hidden Markov models and Markov Chain Monte Carlo. A course in probability (STAT 430 or equivalent); a course in statistical inference (STAT 102, STAT 112, STAT 431 or equivalent); and experience with the statistical software R (at the level of STAT 405 or STAT 470) are recommended. STAT542 - BAYESIAN METH & COMP Sophisticated tools for probability modeling and data analysis from the Bayesian perspective. Hierarchical models, mixture models and Monte Carlo simulation techniques. STAT613 - REGR ANALYSIS FOR BUS This course provides the fundamental methods of statistical analysis, the art and science if extracting information from data. The course will begin with a focus on the basic elements of exploratory data analysis, probability theory and statistical inference. With this as a foundation, it will proceed to explore the use of the key statistical methodology known as regression analysis for solving business problems, such as the prediction of future sales and the response of the market to price changes. The use of regression diagnostics and various graphical displays supplement the basic numerical summaries and provides insight into the validity of the models. Specific important topics covered include least squares estimation, residuals and outliers, tests and confidence intervals, correlation and autocorrelation, collinearity, and randomization. The presentation relies upon computer software for most of the needed calculations, and the resulting style focuses on construction of models, interpretation of results, and critical evaluation of assumptions. STAT899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor, the department MBA advisor and course coordinator required to enroll. STAT927 - BAYESIAN STATISTICS This graduate course will cover the modeling and computation required to perform advanced data analysis from the Bayesian perspective. We will cover fundamental topics in Bayesian probability modeling and implementation, including recent advances in both optimization and simulation-based estimation strategies. Key topics covered in the course include hierarchical and mixture models, Markov Chain Monte Carlo, hidden Markov and dynamic linear models, tree models, Gaussian processes and nonparametric Bayesian strategies. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors SABR Analytics Conference Research Award in Contemporary Baseball Analysis, 2016 Descriptionfor the paper OpenWAR: an open source system for evaluating overall player performance in major league baseball. Sports in Statistics Award for Contributions to the Statistics in Sports Community, American Statistical Association, 2011David W. Hauck Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, The Wharton School, 2009Leonard J. Savage Award for best thesis in Application Methodology from the International Society for Bayesian Analysis, 2005Wharton Teaching Excellence Award, 2019 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonHow Urban Planners Can Encourage Vibrancy and Create Safer Cities, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/12/2017Sports by the Numbers: Predicting Winners and Losers, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/20/2012The Use and Misuse of Statistics: How and Why Numbers Are So Easily Manipulated, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/2/2008Wharton StoriesHow to Use Big Data to Make Cities Safer, Wharton Stories - 04/09/2018 ActivityLatest ResearchColman Humphrey, Shane T. Jensen, Dylan Small, Rachel Thurston (2020), Urban Vibrancy and Safety in Philadelphia, Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science, (to appear).All ResearchIn the NewsHow Urban Planners Can Encourage Vibrancy and Create Safer CitiesRecent Wharton research examines how healthy energy in a particular neighborhood can help reduce crime. Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/12/2017All NewsWharton StoriesHow to Use Big Data to Make Cities SaferHow can we use publicly available data to understand what makes a city neighborhood safe? To answer this question, Shane Jensen and Dylan Small, Professors in Whartons Statistics Department, are using their skills in big data to reveal patterns of crime and safety in the city. Jonathan Wood, a WSIIReadMore Wharton Stories - 04/09/2018All Stories Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
