Abba M. Krieger Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Abba M. Krieger Robert Steinberg ProfessorProfessor of StatisticsProfessor of Operations, Information and DecisionsProfessor of Marketing Contact Information Primary Email: krieger@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-6805 office Address: 442 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: applications in the law, operations management and marketing, applied probability, bootstrap, complex sample surveys, density estimation, grouped data, observational studies, worst case analysis of heuristics Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Harvard University, 1974 MS, Harvard University, 1973 BS, MS, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1972 Recent Consulting Consultant to several major companies in the areas of data analysis, statistical methodology, mathematical modeling, and marketing research. Career and Recent Professional Awards Fellow, American Statistical Association, 1992 Alpha Kappa Psi Award, Journal of Marketing, 1991 Lindback Award for Distinguished Teaching, University of Pennsylvania, 1978 Helen Kardon Moss Anvil Award for Teaching Excellence in the Graduate Division, 1977 Undergraduate Division Excellence in Teaching Award, 1991, 1995, 1996 David W. Hauck Award for Outstanding Teaching in the Undergraduate Division,1996 Academic Positions Held Wharton: 1974-present (Chairperson, Statistics Department, 2002-2008; named Robert Steinberg Professor, 1996). Continue Reading Research Adam Kapelner, Abba M. Krieger, Michael Sklar, Uri Shalit, David Azriel (2020), Harmonizing Fully Optimal Designs with Classic Randomization in Fixed Trial Experiments, The American Statistician, (to appear).Shawniqua Williams Roberson, Preya Shah, Vitoria Piai, Heather Gatens, Abba M. Krieger, Timothy H. Lucas II, Brian Litt (2020), Electrocorticography reveals spatiotemporal neuronal activation patterns of verbal fluency in patients with epilepsy, Neuropsychologia, 141.Robert J. Levy, Emmett Fitzpatrick, Estibaliz Castillero, Halley J. Shukla, Vaishali V. Inamdar, Arbi E. Aghali, Juan B. Grau, Nancy Rioux, Elisa Salvati, Samuel Keeney, Itzhak Nissim, Robert C. Gorman, Lubica Rauova, Stanley J. Stachelek, Chase Brown, Abba M. Krieger, Giovanni Ferrari (Under Revision), Inhibition and down regulation of the serotonin transporter contribute to the progression of degenerative mitral regurgitation.Antonio Frasca, Yingfei Xue, Alexander P. Kossar, Samuel Keeney, Christopher Rock, Andrey Zakharchenko, Matthew Streeter, Robert C. Gorman, Juan B. Grau, Isaac George, Joseph E. Bavaria, Abba M. Krieger (Under Review), Glycation and Serum Albumin Infiltration Contribute to the Structural Degeneration of Bioprosthetic Heart Valves.Shana D. Stites, Jeanine Gill, Emily A. Largent, Cara Fallon, Abba M. Krieger, Pamela Sankar, Jason Karlawish (2019), Effects Of Advances in Biomarker Based Diagnosis and Disease Modifying Treatment on Alzheimers Disease Stigma, Alzheimer's Association International Conference 2019, 15 (7S).Abba M. Krieger, David Azriel, Adam Kapelner (2019), Nearly random designs with greatly improved balance, Biometrika, 106 (3), pp. 695-701.Adam Kapelner, Abba M. Krieger, Michael Sklar, David Azriel (Under Review), Optimal Rerandomization via a Criterion that Provides Insurance Against Failed Experiments.Ruth Heller, Nilanjan Chatterjee, Abba M. Krieger, Jianxin Shi (2018), Post-selection Inference Following Aggregate Level Hypothesis Testing in Large Scale Genomic Data, Journal of the American Statistical Association, 113 (524), pp. 1770-1783.Andreas Buja, Natalia Volfovsky, Abba M. Krieger, Catherine Lord, Michael Wigler, Ivan Iossifov (2018), Damaging De Novo Mutations Diminish Motor Skills in Children on the Autism Spectrum, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 115(8): E1859-E1866.Kathryn A. Davis, Seth P. Devries, Abba M. Krieger, Temenuzhka Mihaylova, Daniela Minecan, Brian Litt, Joost B. Wagenaar, William C. Stacey (2018), The Effect of Increased Intracranial EEG Sampling Rates in Clinical Practice, Clinical Neurophysiology, 129 (2), pp. 360-367. Teaching Past CoursesSTAT101 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Data summaries and descriptive statistics; introduction to a statistical computer package; Probability: distributions, expectation, variance, covariance, portfolios, central limit theorem; statistical inference of univariate data; Statistical inference for bivariate data: inference for intrinsically linear simple regression models. This course will have a business focus, but is not inappropriate for students in the college. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT430 - PROBABILITY Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT510 - PROBABILITY Elements of matrix algebra. Discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions. Moments and moment generating functions. Joint distributions. Functions and transformations of random variables. Law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. Point estimation: sufficiency, maximum likelihood, minimum variance. Confidence intervals. A one-year course in calculus is recommended. STAT621 - ACC REGRESSION ANALYSIS STAT 621 is intended for students with recent, practical knowledge of the use of regression analysis in the context of business applications. This course covers the material of STAT 613, but omits the foundations to focus on regression modeling. The course reviews statistical hypothesis testing and confidence intervals for the sake of standardizing terminology and introducing software, and then moves into regression modeling. The pace presumes recent exposure to both the theory and practice of regression and will not be accommodating to students who have not seen or used these methods previously. The interpretation of regression models within the context of applications will be stressed, presuming knowledge of the underlying assumptions and derivations. The scope of regression modeling that is covered includes multiple regression analysis with categorical effects, regression diagnostic procedures, interactions, and time series structure. The presentation of the course relies on computer software that will be introduced in the initial lectures. Recent exposure to the theory and practice of regression modeling is recommended. STAT701 - MODERN DATA MINING Modern Data Mining: Statistics or Data Science has been evolving rapidly to keep up with the modern world. While classical multiple regression and logistic regression technique continue to be the major tools we go beyond to include methods built on top of linear models such as LASSO and Ridge regression. Contemporary methods such as KNN (K nearest neighbor), Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analyses (PCA), the bootstrap and others are also covered. Text mining especially through PCA is another topic of the course. While learning all the techniques, we keep in mind that our goal is to tackle real problems. Not only do we go through a large collection of interesting, challenging real-life data sets but we also learn how to use the free, powerful software "R" in connection with each of the methods exposed in the class. Prerequisite: two courses at the statistics 400 or 500 level or permission from instructor. STAT899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor, the department MBA advisor and course coordinator required to enroll. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. WH 299 - HONORS THESIS This seminar takes place over two semesters and provides students with the skills to perform their own research under the guidance of a Wharton faculty member. At the conclusion of the fall semester, students will produce a thesis proposal including literature review, significance of the research, methodology, and exploratory data if relevant. Throughout the fall semester faculty guests from a range of disciplines will present on their research in class, highlighting aspects that are relevant to the work students are engaging in at that point. During the second semester, students will collect and analyze data and write up the results in close collaboration with their faculty mentor. At the end of the spring semester, each student will present their research in a video presentation. Throughout the course, students will work individually, in small groups, and under the mentorship of a Wharton faculty member. The goal is to becomes capable independent researchers who incorporate feedback and critical (self-) analysis to take their research to the next level. Awards and Honors Fellow, International Statistical Institute, 2015Wharton MBA Core Award, 2010Journal of Advertising Research Award for Best Paper of 2007 (received with co-authors Leonard Lodish and Ye Hu), 2008 DescriptionAn Analysis of Real World TV Advertising Tests: A 15-Year Update, from JAR volume 47, issue 3, has been voted by the Journal of Advertising Research Editorial Board as the JAR Best Paper of 2007.The JAR Best Paper Prize was introduced this year to recognize the contribution of JAR authors to furthering the industrys knowledge of advertising research. Fellow, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 2008David W. Hauck Award for Outstanding Teaching in the Undergraduate Division, 1996Undergraduate Division Excellence in Teaching Award, 1996 Description1991, 1995, 1996 Fellow, American Statistical Association, 1992Alpha Kappa Psi Award, Journal of Marketing, 1991Wharton MBA Award for Excellence in Teaching, 1982Lindback Award for Distinguished Teaching, University of Pennsylvania, 1978Helen Kardon Moss Anvil Award for Teaching Excellence in the Graduate Division, 1977 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonA Farewell to Two Business Visionaries, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/10/2012Its Not Easy Being Paul Green, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/8/2000 ActivityLatest ResearchAdam Kapelner, Abba M. Krieger, Michael Sklar, Uri Shalit, David Azriel (2020), Harmonizing Fully Optimal Designs with Classic Randomization in Fixed Trial Experiments, The American Statistician, (to appear).All ResearchIn the NewsA Farewell to Two Business VisionariesThe Wharton School recently lost two of its most talented and respected faculty members, individuals whose accomplishments shaped the future of their respective disciplines. Emeritus professors Paul Kleindorfer and Paul Green died near the beginning of the academic year -- Kleindorfer on August 24 and Green on September 21. Both are praised by friends and colleagues for their contributions not only to their own academic pursuits, but to Wharton's expansion into new areas of business education over the past few decades. Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/10/2012All NewsWharton MagazineGreatly MissedWe remember three valuable members of the Wharton faculty. Wharton Magazine - 04/20/2012 Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
