Jian Ding Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Jian Ding Associate Professor of StatisticsAssociate Professor of MathematicsStatistics PhD Coordinator for Enrolled Students Contact Information Primary Email: dingjian@wharton.upenn.edu office Address: 457 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: Probability theory with focus on interactions with statistical physics and theory of computer science. In particular, extreme values of Gaussian processes, random constraint satisfaction problems, random planar geometry. Links: CV Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors Overview Education PhD, Statistics/Probability theory UC Berkeley, 2006-2011 Advisor: Yuval Peres B.S., Mathematics Peking University, 2002-2006 Academic Positions Held Associate Professor, Department of Statistics, University of Chicago, 2016-2017 Assistant Professor, Department of Statistics, University of Chicago, 2011-2016 Szego Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics, Stanford University, 2011-2012 Postdoc, University of Washington, Summer 2011 Mentor: James Lee Research Intern, Microsoft Research New England, Summer 2010 Mentor: Jennifer Chayes Continue Reading Research Jian Ding, Nike Sun, David B. Wilson (2020), Supercritical minimum mean-weight cycles, Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, (to appear).Jian Ding, Ryoki Fukushima, Rongfeng Sun, Changji Xu (2020), Biased random walk conditioned on survival among Bernoulli obstacles: subcritical phase, Communications in Mathematical Physics, (to appear).Jian Ding, Ryoki Fukushima, Rongfeng Sun, Changji Xu (2020), Geometry of the random walk range conditioned on survival among Bernoulli obstacles, Probability Theory and Related Fields, (in press).Jian Ding and Alexander Dunlop (2020), Subsequential scaling limits for Liouville graph distance, Communications in Mathematical Physics, (to appear).Jian Ding and Changji Xu (2020), Localization for random walks among random obstacles in a single Euclidean ball, Communications in Mathematical Physics, 375, pp. 949-1001.Jian Ding and Ewain Gwynne (2020), The fractal dimension of Liouville quantum gravity: universality, monotonicity, and bounds, Communications in Mathematical Physics, 374, pp. 1877-1934.Jian Ding and Charles K. Smart (2020), Localization near the edge for the Anderson Bernoulli model on the two dimensional lattice, Inventiones Mathematicae, 219, pp. 467-506.Jian Ding, Mateo Wirth, Hao Wu (Working), Crossing estimates from metric graph and discrete GFF.Vivek Bagaria, Jian Ding, David Tse, Yihong Wu, Jiaming Xu (2020), Hidden Hamiltonian cycle recovery via linear programming, Operations Research, 68 (1), pp. 53-70.Marek Biskup, Jian Ding, Subhajit Goswami (2020), Return probability and recurrence for the random walk driven by two-dimensional Gaussian free field, Communications in Mathematical Physics, 373, pp. 45-106. Teaching Past CoursesAMCS999 - IND STUDY & RESEARCH Study under the direction of a faculty member. STAT430 - PROBABILITY Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT510 - PROBABILITY Elements of matrix algebra. Discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions. Moments and moment generating functions. Joint distributions. Functions and transformations of random variables. Law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. Point estimation: sufficiency, maximum likelihood, minimum variance. Confidence intervals. A one-year course in calculus is recommended. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Invited Address in the AMS Sectional Meeting, Boston, MA, 2018 DescriptionThe AMS holds eight sectional meetings annually. Generally, there is one meeting in the spring and one in the fall in each section of the U.S. Rollo Davidson Prize, 2017 DescriptionThe Rollo Davidson Prize is a prize awarded annually to early-career probabilists by the Rollo Davidson trustees. It is named after English mathematician Rollo Davidson (19441970). Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, 2015-2017 DescriptionThe Sloan Research Fellowships seek to stimulate fundamental research by early-career scientists and scholars of outstanding promise. These two-year fellowships are awarded yearly to 126 researchers in recognition of distinguished performance and a unique potential to make substantial contributions to their field. NSF Career Award, 2015-2020 DescriptionThe Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program is a Foundation-wide activity that offers the National Science Foundations most prestigious awards in support of early-career faculty who have the potential to serve as academic role models in research and education and to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization. ActivityLatest ResearchJian Ding, Nike Sun, David B. Wilson (2020), Supercritical minimum mean-weight cycles, Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, (to appear).All Research Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
