Nancy R. Zhang Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Nancy R. Zhang Ge Li and Ning Zhao ProfessorProfessor of StatisticsVice Dean of Wharton Doctoral Programs Contact Information Primary Email: nzh@wharton.upenn.edu office Address: 456 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: genomics, change-point methods, empirical bayes estimation, model and variable selection, scan statistics, statistical modeling Links: CV Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors Overview Dr. Zhang is Professor of Statistics in The Wharton School at University of Pennsylvania. Her current research focuses primarily on the development of statistical and computational approaches for the analysis of genetic, genomic, and transcriptomic data. In the field of Genomics, she has developed methods to improve the accuracy of copy number variant and structural variant detection, methods for improved FDR control, and methods for analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data. In the field of Statistics, she has developed new models and methods for change-point analysis, variable selection, and model selection. Dr. Zhang has also made contributions in the area of tumor genomics, where she has developed analysis methods to improve our understanding of intra-tumor clonal heterogeneity. Here are some of Dr. Zhangs representative publications, categorized by topic (alphabetical ordering, *corresponding author): Change-point detection and scan statistics Zhang NR, Siegmund DO (2007) A modified Bayes information criterion with applications to the analysis of comparative genomic hybridization data, Biometrics 63, 22. Chan HP, Zhang NR (2007) Scan statistics with weighted observations, Journal of the American Statistical Association, 102, 595. Zhang NR, Siegmund DO, Ji H, Li J (2010) Detecting simultaneous changepoints in multiple sequences, Biometrika 97, 631. Siegmund DO, Zhang NR, Yakir B (2011) False discovery rate for scanning statistics, Biometrika 98, 979. Chen H, Zhang NR (2015) Graph-based change-point detection, The Annals of Statistics 43, 139. Zhang NR, Siegmund DO (2012) Model selection for high dimensional, multi-sequence change-point problems, Statistica Sinica 22, 1507. General multiple testing control, high-dimensional inference Li F, Zhang NR (2010) Bayesian variable selection in structured high-dimensional covariate spaces with applications in genomics, Journal of the American Statistical Association 105, 1202. Bickel PJ, Boley N, Brown JB, Huang H, Zhang NR (2010) Subsampling methods for genomic inference, Annals of Applied Statistics 4, 1660. Sun Y, Zhang NR and Owen A* (2012) Multiple hypothesis testing, adjusted for latent variables, with an application to the agemap gene expression data, Annals of Applied Statistics 6, 1664. DNA copy number estimation, variant detection and inference (see also the first bullet point which focuses more on the theory and methods aspect) Zhang NR, Senbabaoglu Y, Li J* (2010) Joint estimation of DNA copy number from multiple platforms, Bioinformatics 26, 153. Chen H, Xing H, Zhang NR* (2011) Estimation of parent specific DNA copy number in tumors using high-density genotyping arrays, PLoS Computational Biology 7, e1001060. Siegmund DO, Yakir B, Zhang NR* (2011) Detecting simultaneous variant intervals in aligned sequences, Annals of Applied Statistics 5, 645. Shen J, Zhang NR* (2012) Change-point model on nonhomogeneous Poisson processes with application in copy number profiling by next-generation DNA sequencing, Annals of Applied Statistics 6, 476. Chen H, Bell JM, Zavala NA, Ji HP, Zhang NR* (2015) Allele-specific copy number profiling by next-generation DNA sequencing, Nucleic Acids Research 43, e23. Jiang Y, Oldridge DA, Diskin SJ, Zhang NR * (2015) CODEX: a normalization and copy number variation detection method for whole exome sequencing, Nucleic Acids Research 43, e39. Xia LC, Sakshuwong S, Hopmans ES, Bell JM, Grimes SM, Siegmund DO, Ji HP, Zhang NR* (2016) A genome-wide approach for detecting novel insertion-deletion variants of mid-range size, Nucleic Acids Research 44, e126. Intra-tumor heterogeneity and cancer genomics (see also #2, 5, 7 under DNA copy number estimation) Jiang Y, Qiu Y, Minn AJ, Zhang NR* (2016) Assessing intratumor heterogeneity and tracking longitudinal and spatial clonal evolutionary history by next-generation sequencing, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 113, E5528. Muralidharan O, Natsoulis G, Bell J, Ji H, Zhang NR* (2012) Detecting mutations in mixed sample sequencing data using empirical Bayes, Annals of Applied Statistics 6, 1047. Xia LC, Bell JM, Wood-Bouwens C, Chen JJ, Zhang NR*, Ji HP* (2017) Single molecule-based discovery of complex genomic rearrangements, Nucleic Acids Research 46, e19. Single cell genomics Jiang Y, Zhang NR*, Li M* (2017) SCALE: modeling allele-specific gene expression by single-cell RNA-sequencing, Genome Biology 18, 74. Jia C, Hu Y, Kelly D, Kim J, Li M*, Zhang NR* (2017) Accounting for technical noise in differential expression analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data, Nucleic Acids Research, 45, 10978. Huang M, Wang J, Torre E, Dueck H, Shaffer S, Bonasio R, Murray J, Raj A, Li M, Zhang NR* (2018) SAVER: Gene expression recovery for single cell RNA sequencing, Nature Methods,15, 539. Wang J, Huang M, Torre E, Dueck H, Shaffer S, Murray J, Raj A, Li M, Zhang NR* (2018) Gene expression distribution deconvolution in single cell RNA sequencing, accepted by Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. For a complete overview of Dr. Zhangs publications, funded grants, and teaching, mentoring, and service work, see her CV above. For more on the recent single cell research done in Dr. Zhangs group since 2016, see this website for Laboratory for Single Cell Data Science @ Penn, joint with Dr. Mingyao Li from School of Medicine:http://singlecell.wharton.upenn.edu/ Dr. Zhang obtained her Ph.D. in Statistics in 2005 from Stanford University. After one year of postdoctoral training at University of California, Berkeley, she returned to the Department of Statistics at Stanford University as Assistant Professor in 2006. She received the Sloan Fellowship in 2011, before formally moving to University of Pennsylvania in 2012 as tenured Associate Professor. She is the Principal Investigator in multiple independent research awards funded by the National institutes of Health and National Science Foundation. At Penn, she is a member of the Graduate Group in Genomics and Computational Biology and of the Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center. Continue Reading Research Much of my recent efforts have been devoted to tackling the challenges in single cell genomic research. For more on this aspect of my research, you are welcome to browse this website: http://singlecell.wharton.upenn.edu/ which features the joint work of my lab and the lab of Dr. Mingyao Li from Penn School of Medicine during the last 3 years. For a complete list of my publications and funded grants, the most trustworthy source is my CV (see link above).The searchable publication list below is only updated once per year. Heres a list of my currently funded projects: Statistical Methods for Single Cell Transcriptomics (R01 from NIGMS, role: PI in MPI team) Genomic and Cellular Variation from Single Molecules to Single Cells (R01 from NHGRI, role: PI) Statistical Methods for High Resolution Multiscale Analysis of 3D Genome (NSF-NIGMS Award, role: co-PI) Radiation and Checkpoint Blockade for Cancer Immune Therapy (P01 from NCI, role: Co-Investigator) The NIA Genetics of Alzheimers Disease Data Storage Site (U24 from NIA, role: Co-Investigator) Identifying Genes and Pathways that Impact Tau Toxicity in FTD (U54, role: Co-Investigator) Coordinating Center for Genetics and Genomics of Alzheimers Disease (U54 from NIA, role: Co-Investigator) Somabha Mukherjee, Divyansh Agarwal, Nancy Zhang, Bhaswar B. Bhattacharya (2020), Distribution-free multisample test based on optimal matching with applications to single cell genomics, Journal of the American Statistical Association, (to appear).Zilu Zhou, Chengzhong Ye, Jingshu Wang, Nancy Zhang (2020), Surface protein imputation from single cell transcriptomes by deep neural networks, Nature Communications, 11 (651), pp. 1-10.Zilu Zhou, Bihui Xu, Andy Minn, Nancy Zhang (2020), DENDRO: genetic heterogeneity profiling and subclone detection by single-cell RNA sequencing, Genome Biology, 21 (10), pp. 1-15.Son Nguyen, Claire Deleage, Samuel Darko, Amy Ransier, Duc P. Truong, Divyansh Agarwal, Alberto Sada Japp, Vincent H. Wu, Leticia Kuri-Cervantes, Mohamed Abdel-Mohsen, Perla M. Del Rio Estrada, Yuria Ablanedo-Terrazas, Emma Gostick, James A. Hoxie, Nancy Zhang, Ali Naji, Gustavo Reyes-Teran, Jacob D. Estes, David A. Price, Daniel C. Douek, Steven G. Deeks, Marcus Buggert, Michael R. Betts (2019), Elite control of HIV is associated with distinct functional and transcriptional signatures in lymphoid tissue CD8+ T cells, Science Translational Medicine , 11(523): eaax4077.Divyansh Agarwal and Nancy Zhang (2019), Semblance: An empirical similarity kernel on probability spaces, Science Advances, 5(12): eaau9630.Diana Pauly, Divyansh Agarwal, Nicholas Dana, Nicole Schafer, Josef Biber, Kirsten A. Wunderlich, Yassin Jabri, Tobias Straub, Nancy Zhang, Avneesh K. Gautam, Bernhard H.F. Weber, Stefanie M. Hauck, Mijin Kim, Christine A. Curcio, Dwight Stambolian, Mingyao Li, Antje Grosch (2019), Cell-Type-Specific Complement Expression in the Healthy and Diseased Retina, Cell Reports, 29 (9), pp. 2835-2848.Nancy Zhang and Mo Huang (Working), Reply to Issues arising from benchmarking single-cell RNA sequencing imputation methods.Jingshu Wang, Divyansh Agarwal, Mo Huang, Gang Hu, Zilu Zhou, Chengzhong Ye, Nancy Zhang (2019), Data denoising with transfer learning in single-cell transcriptomics, Nature Methods, 16, pp. 875-878.Joseph L. Benci, Lexus R. Johnson, Ruth Choa, Yuanming Xu, Jingya Qiu, Zilu Zhou, Bihui Xu, Darwin Ye, Katherine L. Nathanson, Carl H. June, John Wherry, Nancy Zhang, Hemant Ishwaran, Matthew D. Hellmann, Jedd D. Wolchok, Taku Kambayashi, Andy J. Minn (2019), Opposing Functions of Interferon Coordinate Adaptive and Innate Immune Responses to Cancer Immune Checkpoint Blockade, Cell, 178 (4), pp. 933-948.Qingyuan Zhao, Jingshu Wang, Zhen Miao, Nancy Zhang, Sean Hennessy, Dylan Small, Daniel J. Rader, The role of lipoprotein subfractions in coronary artery disease: A Mendelian randomization study. Teaching Past CoursesGCB 699 - LAB ROTATIONGCB 899 - PREDISSERTATION RESEARCHGCB 995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT405 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT431 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. This course does not have business applications but has significant overlap with STAT 101 and 102. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT471 - MODERN DATA MINING Modern Data Mining: Statistics or Data Science has been evolving rapidly to keep up with the modern world. While classical multiple regression and logistic regression technique continue to be the major tools we go beyond to include methods built on top of linear models such as LASSO and Ridge regression. Contemporary methods such as KNN (K nearest neighbor), Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analyses (PCA), the bootstrap and others are also covered. Text mining especially through PCA is another topic of the course. While learning all the techniques, we keep in mind that our goal is to tackle real problems. Not only do we go through a large collection of interesting, challenging real-life data sets but we also learn how to use the free, powerful software "R" in connection with each of the methods exposed in the class. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT701 - MODERN DATA MINING Modern Data Mining: Statistics or Data Science has been evolving rapidly to keep up with the modern world. While classical multiple regression and logistic regression technique continue to be the major tools we go beyond to include methods built on top of linear models such as LASSO and Ridge regression. Contemporary methods such as KNN (K nearest neighbor), Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analyses (PCA), the bootstrap and others are also covered. Text mining especially through PCA is another topic of the course. While learning all the techniques, we keep in mind that our goal is to tackle real problems. Not only do we go through a large collection of interesting, challenging real-life data sets but we also learn how to use the free, powerful software "R" in connection with each of the methods exposed in the class. Prerequisite: two courses at the statistics 400 or 500 level or permission from instructor. STAT705 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Sloan Fellowship, 2011New World Silver Medal for Best PhD Thesis in Mathematical Sciences, 2007 ActivityLatest ResearchSomabha Mukherjee, Divyansh Agarwal, Nancy Zhang, Bhaswar B. Bhattacharya (2020), Distribution-free multisample test based on optimal matching with applications to single cell genomics, Journal of the American Statistical Association, (to appear).All ResearchWharton MagazineView From the TopWharton Magazine - 10/21/2019Wharton StoriesFarewell Dean Geoffrey GarrettOn July 1, Dean Geoffrey Garrett is leaving The Wharton School to take over as Dean of the University of Southern Californias Marshall School of Business in Los Angeles. Since he took over as Dean in July 2014, Geoff has advanced Whartons reputation as one of the worlds leading businessReadMore Wharton Stories - 06/29/2020All Stories Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
