Weijie Su Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Weijie Su Assistant Professor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: suw@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: 215-746-8565 office Address: 472 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: statistical machine learning, high-dimensional inference, large-scale multiple testing, optimization, and privacy-preserving data analysis. Links: Personal Website Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors Overview Education Ph.D. in Statistics, Stanford University, 2016 B.S. in Mathematics, Peking University, 2011 Continue Reading Research Richard A. Berk, Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Edward I. George, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Weijie Su, Linda Zhao (2020), Assumption Lean Regression, American Statistician, (in press).Hangfeng He and Weijie Su (2020), The Local Elasticity of Neural Networks, International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), (to appear).Zhiqi Bu, Jinshuo Dong, Qi Long, Weijie Su (Working), Deep Learning with Gaussian Differential Privacy.Bin Shi, Simon S. Du, Weijie Su, Michael I. Jordan (2019), Acceleration via Symplectic Discretization of High-Resolution Differential Equations, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32.Matteo Sordello and Weijie Su (Forthcoming), Robust Learning Rate Selection for Stochastic Optimization via Splitting Diagnostic.Abstract: This paper proposes SplitSGD, a new dynamic learning rate schedule for stochastic optimiza- tion. This method decreases the learning rate for better adaptation to the local geometry of the objective function whenever a stationary phase is detected, that is, the iterates are likely to bounce at around a vicinity of a local minimum. The detection is performed by splitting the single thread into two and using the inner product of the gradients from the two threads as a measure of stationarity. Owing to this simple yet provably valid stationarity detection, SplitSGD is easy-to-implement and essentially does not incur additional computational cost than standard SGD. Through a series of extensive experiments, we show that this method is appropriate for both convex problems and training (non-convex) neural networks, with performance compared favorably to other stochastic optimization methods. Importantly, this method is observed to be very robust with a set of default parameters for a wide range of problems and, moreover, yields better generalization performance than other adaptive gradient methods such as Adam.Zhiqi Bu, Jason Klusowski, Cynthia Rush, Weijie Su (2019), Algorithmic Analysis and Statistical Estimation of SLOPE via Approximate Message Passing, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32.Jinshuo Dong, Aaron Roth, Weijie Su (Working), Gaussian Differential Privacy.Qingyuan Zhao, Dylan Small, Weijie Su (2019), Multiple Testing When Many p-Values are Uniformly Conservative, with Application to Testing Qualitative Interaction in Educational Interventions, Journal of the American Statistical Association, 114 (527), pp. 1291-1304.Damian Brzyski, Alexej Gossmann, Weijie Su, Malgorzata Bogdan (2019), Group SLOPE Adaptive Selection of Groups of Predictors, Journal of the American Statistical Association, 114 (525), pp. 419-433.Tengyuan Liang and Weijie Su (2019), Statistical Inference for the Population Landscape via Momentadjusted Stochastic Gradients, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B, 81 (2), pp. 431-456. Teaching Current CoursesSTAT405 - Stat Computing With R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT405401 ( Syllabus )STAT405402 ( Syllabus )STAT405403 ( Syllabus )STAT405404 ( Syllabus )STAT705 - Stat Computing With R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT705401 ( Syllabus )STAT705402 ( Syllabus )STAT705403 ( Syllabus )STAT705404 ( Syllabus )STAT991 - Sem In Adv Appl Of Stat This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT991302 ( Syllabus )Past CoursesAMCS599 - INDEPENDENT STUDYSTAT405 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT431 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. This course does not have business applications but has significant overlap with STAT 101 and 102. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT511 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. STAT705 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Facebook Faculty Research Award, 2020Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, 2020NSF CAREER Award, 2019-2024Theodore W. Anderson Stanford Dissertation Award in Theoretical Statistics, 2016 ActivityLatest ResearchRichard A. Berk, Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Edward I. George, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Weijie Su, Linda Zhao (2020), Assumption Lean Regression, American Statistician, (in press).All Research Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
