Andreas Buja Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Andreas Buja The Liem Sioe Liong/First Pacific Company ProfessorProfessor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: buja.at.wharton@gmail.com office Address: 471 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: data visualization, multivariate statistics, nonparametric statistics Links: CV Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETHZ), 1980 Academic Positions Held Wharton: 2002-present (name Liem Sioe Liong/ First Pacific Company Professor, 2003). Previous appointment: University of Washington, Seattle. Visiting appointment: Stanford University Other Positions Member, Technical Staff, Bellcore/Telcordia, 1987-94 Member, Technical Staff, AT&T Bell Labs, 1994-96 Technology Consultant, AT&T Labs, 1996-2001 Professional Leadership Editor, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 1997-2001 Advisory Editor, Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics, 2001-present For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Andreas Buja and Wolfgang Rolke (Work In Progress), Calibration for Simultaneity: (Re)sampling Methods for Simultaneous Inference with Applications to Function Estimation and Functional Data.Abstract: We survey and illustrate a Monte Carlo technique for carrying out simple simultaneous inference with arbitrarily many statistics. Special cases of the technique have appeared in the literature, but there exists widespread unawareness of the simplicity and broad applicability of this solution to simultaneous inference. The technique, here called calibration for simultaneity" or CfS , consists of 1) limiting the search for coverage regions to a one-parameter family of nested regions, and 2) selecting from the family that region whose estimated coverage probability has the desired value. Natural one-parameter families are almost always available. CfS applies whenever inference is based on a single distribution, for example: 1) fixed distributions such as Gaussians when diagnosing distributional assumptions, 2) conditional null distributions in exact tests with Neyman structure, in particular permutation tests, 3) bootstrap distributions for bootstrap standard error bands, 4) Bayesian posterior distributions for high-dimensional posterior probability regions, or 5) predictive distributions for multiple prediction intervals. CfS is particularly useful for estimation of any type of function, such as empirical Q-Q curves, empirical CDFs, density estimates, smooths, generally any type of _t, and functions estimated from functional data. A special case of CfS is equivalent to p-value adjustment (Westfall and Young, 1993). Conversely, the notion of a p-value can be extended to any simultaneous coverage problem that is solved with a one-parameter family of coverage regions.Richard A. Berk, Matthew Olson, Andreas Buja, Aurelie Ouss (2020), Using Recursive Partitioning to Find and Estimate Heterogenous Treatment Effects in Randomized Clinical Trials, Journal of Experimential Criminology, (to appear).Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2020), A Model Free Perspective for Linear Regression: Uniform-in-model Bounds for Post Selection Inference, Econometric Theory, (to appear).Abstract: For the last two decades, high-dimensional data and methods have proliferated throughout the literature. The classical technique of linear regression, however, has not lost its touch in applications. Most high-dimensional estimation techniques can be seen as variable selection tools which lead to a smaller set of variables where classical linear regression technique applies. In this paper, we prove estimation error and linear representation bounds for the linear regression estimator uniformly over (many) subsets of variables. Based on deterministic inequalities, our results provide good rates when applied to both independent and dependent data. These results are useful in correctly interpreting the linear regression estimator obtained after exploring the data and also in post model-selection inference. All the results are derived under no model assumptions and are non-asymptotic in nature.Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2020), Valid Post-selection Inference in Assumption-lean Linear Regression, Annals of Statistics, (to appear).Abstract: This paper provides multiple approaches to perform valid post-selection inference in an assumption-lean regression analysis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that provides valid post-selection inference for regression analysis in such a general settings that include independent, m-dependent random variables.Richard A. Berk, Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Edward I. George, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Weijie Su, Linda Zhao (2020), Assumption Lean Regression, American Statistician, (in press).Andreas Buja, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Eric Tchetgen Tchetgen, Linda Zhao (2020), Models as ApproximationsRejoinder, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 606-620.Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Emil Pitkin, Mikhail Traskin, Kai Zhang, Linda Zhao (2019), Models as Approximations I: Consequences Illustrated with Linear Regression, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 523-544.Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2019), Models as Approximations II: A Model-Free Theory of Parametric Regression, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 345-365.Arun Kumar Kuchibhotla, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Junhui Cai (Working), All of Linear Regression.Daniel McCarthy, Kai Zhang, Lawrence D. Brown, Richard A. Berk, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2018), Calibrated Percentile Double Bootstrap For Robust Linear Regression Inference, Statistica Sinica, 28 (4), pp. 2565-2589. Teaching Past CoursesSTAT101 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Data summaries and descriptive statistics; introduction to a statistical computer package; Probability: distributions, expectation, variance, covariance, portfolios, central limit theorem; statistical inference of univariate data; Statistical inference for bivariate data: inference for intrinsically linear simple regression models. This course will have a business focus, but is not inappropriate for students in the college. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT470 - DATA ANALY & STAT COMP This course will introduce a high-level programming language, called R, that is widely used for statistical data analysis. Using R, we will study and practice the following methodologies: data cleaning, feature extraction; web scrubbing, text analysis; data visualization; fitting statistical models; simulation of probability distributions and statistical models; statistical inference methods that use simulations (bootstrap, permutation tests). Prerequisite: Waiving the Statistics Core completely if prerequisites are not met. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT503 - DATA ANALY & STAT COMP This course will introduce a high-level programming language, called R, that is widely used for statistical data analysis. Using R, we will study and practice the following methodologies: data cleaning, feature extraction; web scrubbing, text analysis; data visualization; fitting statistical models; simulation of probability distributions and statistical models; statistical inference methods that use simulations (bootstrap, permutation tests). Prerequisite: Two courses at the statistics 400 or 500 level. STAT621 - ACC REGRESSION ANALYSIS STAT 621 is intended for students with recent, practical knowledge of the use of regression analysis in the context of business applications. This course covers the material of STAT 613, but omits the foundations to focus on regression modeling. The course reviews statistical hypothesis testing and confidence intervals for the sake of standardizing terminology and introducing software, and then moves into regression modeling. The pace presumes recent exposure to both the theory and practice of regression and will not be accommodating to students who have not seen or used these methods previously. The interpretation of regression models within the context of applications will be stressed, presuming knowledge of the underlying assumptions and derivations. The scope of regression modeling that is covered includes multiple regression analysis with categorical effects, regression diagnostic procedures, interactions, and time series structure. The presentation of the course relies on computer software that will be introduced in the initial lectures. Recent exposure to the theory and practice of regression modeling is recommended. STAT770 - DATA ANALY & STAT COMP This course will introduce a high-level programming language, called R, that is widely used for statistical data analysis. Using R, we will study and practice the following methodologies: data cleaning, feature extraction; web scrubbing, text analysis; data visualization; fitting statistical models; simulation of probability distributions and statistical models; statistical inference methods that use simulations (bootstrap, permutation tests). Prerequisite: Two courses at the statistics 400 or 500 level. STAT899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor, the department MBA advisor and course coordinator required to enroll. STAT926 - MULTIVARIATE ANALY: METH This is a course that prepares PhD students in statistics for research in multivariate statistics and data visualization. The emphasis will be on a deep conceptual understanding of multivariate methods to the point where students will propose variations and extensions to existing methods or whole new approaches to problems previously solved by classical methods. Topics include: principal component analysis, canonical correlation analysis, generalized canonical analysis; nonlinear extensions of multivariate methods based on optimal transformations of quantitative variables and optimal scaling of categorical variables; shrinkage- and sparsity-based extensions to classical methods; clustering methods of the k-means and hierarchical varieties; multidimensional scaling, graph drawing, and manifold estimation. STAT961 - STATISTICAL METHODOLOGY This is a course that prepares 1st year PhD students in statistics for a research career. This is not an applied statistics course. Topics covered include: linear models and their high-dimensional geometry, statistical inference illustrated with linear models, diagnostics for linear models, bootstrap and permutation inference, principal component analysis, smoothing and cross-validation. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Keynote speaker, Classification Society Conference, Milwaukee, WI, USA, 2013Infovis best paper award for the article Graphical inference for infovis by Wickham, H., Cook, D., Hofmann, H., and Buja, A. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics (Proc. InfoVis10)., 2010Journal of Marketing, finalist for the Harold H. Maynard Award and featured blog article of the October Issue, 2007Keynote speaker, SIAM Conference on Datamining (SDM06), Bethesda, MD, USA, 2006Fellow, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 2006IMS Medallion lecture, Joint Statistical Meetings, New York, 2002Keynote speaker, European Meeting of the Psychometric Society, Leiden, 1995Fellow, American Statistical Association, 1994Award Medal for diploma thesis in mathematics, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, 1975 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonDifferent Worlds: Do Recommender Systems Fragment Consumers Interests?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/31/2011 ActivityLatest ResearchAndreas Buja and Wolfgang Rolke (Work In Progress), Calibration for Simultaneity: (Re)sampling Methods for Simultaneous Inference with Applications to Function Estimation and Functional Data.All ResearchIn the NewsDifferent Worlds: Do Recommender Systems Fragment Consumers Interests?The rise of computer-driven recommendation systems designed to help consumers navigate a growing ocean of choice is prompting concerns that the hyperpersonalization of information sources will lead to harmful divisions throughout society. A new study on consumer purchasing patterns in the music industry suggests the opposite. The paper, by Wharton researchers Kartik Hosanagar, Andreas Buja and Daniel M. Fleder, is titled, "Will the Global Village Fracture into Tribes: Recommender Systems and their Effects on the Consumer." Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/31/2011All News Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
