Paul R. Rosenbaum Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Paul R. Rosenbaum Robert G. Putzel ProfessorProfessor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: rosenbaum@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-3120 office Address: 473 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: design and analysis of observational studies, design and analysis of experiments, health outcomes research Links: CV, Personal Website Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Harvard University, 1980 AM, Harvard University, 1978 BA, Hampshire College, 1977 Career and Recent Professional Awards R. A. Fisher Award and Lecture from the Committee of Presidents of Statistical Societies, 2019 George W. Snedecor Award from the Committee of Presidents of Statistical Societies, 2003 Academic Positions Held Wharton: 1986-present. (named Robert G. Putzel Professor, 2001; Robert B. Egelston Term Professor of Statistics, 1991-92; Joseph Wharton Term Associate Professor and Professor of Statistics, 1986-91) Previous appointment: University of Wisconsin, Madison Other Positions Senior Research Scientist, Research Statistics Group, Educational Testing Service, 1986 Research Scientist, Research Statistics Group, Educational Testing Service, 1983-86 Statistician, Division of Statistics and Applied Mathematics, Office of Radiation Programs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1980-81 Professional Leadership Member, Committee on National Statistics, National Research Council, 1996-99 Member, Committee on Data and Research for Policy on Illegal Drugs, National Research Council, 1998-2000 Member, Advisory Board of the Measurement, Methodology and Statistics Program of the U.S. National Science Foundation, 1999-2001 For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Bikram Karmakar, Dylan Small, Paul R. Rosenbaum (2020), Using evidence factors to clarify exposure biomarkers, American Journal of Epidemiology, (to appear).Paul R. Rosenbaum (2020), Combining planned and discovered comparisons in observational studies, Biostatistics, (to appear).Rachel R. Kelz, Morgan M. Sellers, Bijan A. Niknam, James E. Sharpe, Paul R. Rosenbaum, Alexander S. Hill, Hong Zhou, Lauren L. Hochman, Karl Y. Bilimoria, Kamal Itani, Patrick S. Romano, Jeffrey H. Silber (2020), A national comparison of operative outcomes of new and experienced surgeons, Annals of Surgery, (to appear).Paul R. Rosenbaum, Design of Observational Studies, 2nd edition (Springer, 2020)Abstract: ProductFlyer_9783030464042Raiden B. Hasegawa, Sameer K. Deshpande, Dylan Small, Paul R. Rosenbaum (2020), Causal inference with two versions of treatment, Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics, (to appear).Rachel R. Kelz, Bijan A. Niknam, Morgan M. Sellers, James E. Sharpe, Paul R. Rosenbaum, Alexander S. Hill, Hong Zhou, Lauren L. Hochman, Karl Y. Bilimoria, Kamal Itani, Patrick S. Romano, Jeffrey H. Silber (2020), Duty hour reform and the outcomes of patients treated by new surgeons, Annals of Surgery, 271 (4), pp. 599-605.Jeffrey H. Silber, Paul R. Rosenbaum, Bijan A. Niknam, Richard N. Ross, Joseph G. Reiter, Alexander S. Hill, Lauren L. Hochman, Sydney E. Brown, Alexander F. Arriaga, Lee A. Fleisher (2020), Comparing outcomes and costs of medical patients treated at major teaching and non-teaching hospitals: a national matched analysis, Journal of General Internal Medicine, 35 (3), pp. 743-752.Paul R. Rosenbaum (2020), Modern algorithms for matching in observational studies, Annual Review of Statistics and Its Application , 7, pp. 143-176.Jeffrey H. Silber, Paul R. Rosenbaum, Bijan A. Niknam, Richard N. Ross, Joseph G. Reiter, Alexander S. Hill, Lauren L. Hochman, Sydney E. Brown, Alexander F. Arriaga, Rachel R. Kelz, Lee A. Fleisher (2020), Comparing outcomes and costs of surgical patients treated at major teaching and nonteaching hospitals: a national matched analysis, Annals of Surgery, 271 (3), pp. 412-421.Ruoqi Yu and Paul R. Rosenbaum (2019), Directional penalties for optimal matching in observational studies, Biometrics, 75 (4), pp. 1380-1390. Teaching Past CoursesBSTA550 - APPLIED REG & ANALY VAR An applied graduate level course in multiple regression and analysis of variance for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Covers model building, general linear hypothesis, residual analysis, leverage and influence, one-way anova, two-way anova, factorial anova. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. PSYC611 - APPLIED REG & ANALY VAR An applied graduate level course in multiple regression and analysis of variance for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Covers model building, general linear hypothesis, residual analysis, leverage and influence, one-way anova, two-way anova, factorial anova. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. PSYC612 - INT TO NONP & LOGLIN MOD An applied graduate level course for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Covers two unrelated topics: loglinear and logit models for discrete data and nonparametric methods for nonnormal data. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT112 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Further development of the material in STAT 111, in particular the analysis of variance, multiple regression, non-parametric procedures and the analysis of categorical data. Data analysis via statistical packages. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT500 - APPLIED REG & ANALY VAR An applied graduate level course in multiple regression and analysis of variance for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Covers model building, general linear hypothesis, residual analysis, leverage and influence, one-way anova, two-way anova, factorial anova. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT501 - INT TO NONP & LOGLIN MOD An applied graduate level course for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Covers two unrelated topics: loglinear and logit models for discrete data and nonparametric methods for nonnormal data. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT991 - SEM IN ADV APPL OF STAT This seminar will be taken by doctoral candidates after the completion of most of their coursework. Topics vary from year to year and are chosen from advance probability, statistical inference, robust methods, and decision theory with principal emphasis on applications. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Long-Term Excellence Award from the Health Policy Statistics Section of the American Statistical Association, 2018C. G. Khatri Lecture, Penn State University, 2017Nathan Mantel Award from the Section on Statistics in Epidemiology of the American Statistical Association, 2017Nelder Lecture, Imperial College, 2016George W. Snedecor Award from COPSS, 2003Fellow, American Statistical Association, 1992R.A. Fisher Award and Lecture from COPSS, 2019 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonGrading Hospital Quality with a Level Playing Field, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/20/2014 ActivityLatest ResearchBikram Karmakar, Dylan Small, Paul R. Rosenbaum (2020), Using evidence factors to clarify exposure biomarkers, American Journal of Epidemiology, (to appear).All ResearchIn the NewsGrading Hospital Quality with a Level Playing FieldBy matching patients across a group of hospitals, a new paper co-authored by two Wharton professors suggests a fairer and more accurate way of assessing the quality of health care providers. Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/20/2014All News Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
