Emil Pitkin Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Emil Pitkin Lecturer and Research Scholar in Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: pitkin@wharton.upenn.edu office Address: 429 Jon M Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Teaching Awards and Honors Research Andreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Emil Pitkin, Mikhail Traskin, Kai Zhang, Linda Zhao (2019), Models as Approximations I: Consequences Illustrated with Linear Regression, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 523-544.Richard A. Berk, Emil Pitkin, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Linda Zhao (2014), Covariance Adjustments for the Analysis of Randomized Field Experiments, Evaluation Review, 37 (3-4), pp. 170-196.Abstract: It has become common practice to analyze randomized experiments using linear regression with covariates. Improved precision of treatment effect estimates is the usual motivation. In a series of important articles, David Freedman showed that this approach can be badly flawed. Recent work by Winston Lin offers partial remedies, but important problems remain.Emil Pitkin, Richard A. Berk, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Kai Zhang, Linda Zhao (Under Review), Improved Precision in Estimating Average Treatment Effects.Richard A. Berk, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Edward I. George, Emil Pitkin, Mikhail Traskin, Kai Zhang, Linda Zhao, What You Can Learn From Wrong Causal Models. In Handbook of Causal Analysis for Social Research, edited by Stephen Morgan, (Springer Netherlands, 2013), pp. 403-424 Teaching Current CoursesSTAT613 - Regr Analysis For Bus This course provides the fundamental methods of statistical analysis, the art and science if extracting information from data. The course will begin with a focus on the basic elements of exploratory data analysis, probability theory and statistical inference. With this as a foundation, it will proceed to explore the use of the key statistical methodology known as regression analysis for solving business problems, such as the prediction of future sales and the response of the market to price changes. The use of regression diagnostics and various graphical displays supplement the basic numerical summaries and provides insight into the validity of the models. Specific important topics covered include least squares estimation, residuals and outliers, tests and confidence intervals, correlation and autocorrelation, collinearity, and randomization. The presentation relies upon computer software for most of the needed calculations, and the resulting style focuses on construction of models, interpretation of results, and critical evaluation of assumptions. STAT613001STAT613002STAT613003Past CoursesSTAT111 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Introduction to concepts in probability. Basic statistical inference procedures of estimation, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing directed towards applications in science and medicine. The use of the JMP statistical package. Knowledge of high school algebra is required for this course. STAT430 - PROBABILITY Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT613 - REGR ANALYSIS FOR BUS This course provides the fundamental methods of statistical analysis, the art and science if extracting information from data. The course will begin with a focus on the basic elements of exploratory data analysis, probability theory and statistical inference. With this as a foundation, it will proceed to explore the use of the key statistical methodology known as regression analysis for solving business problems, such as the prediction of future sales and the response of the market to price changes. The use of regression diagnostics and various graphical displays supplement the basic numerical summaries and provides insight into the validity of the models. Specific important topics covered include least squares estimation, residuals and outliers, tests and confidence intervals, correlation and autocorrelation, collinearity, and randomization. The presentation relies upon computer software for most of the needed calculations, and the resulting style focuses on construction of models, interpretation of results, and critical evaluation of assumptions. Awards and Honors Helen Kardon Moss Anvil Award, 2018 ActivityLatest ResearchAndreas Buja, Lawrence D. Brown, Richard A. Berk, Edward I. George, Emil Pitkin, Mikhail Traskin, Kai Zhang, Linda Zhao (2019), Models as Approximations I: Consequences Illustrated with Linear Regression, Statistical Science, 34 (4), pp. 523-544.All ResearchWharton StoriesThe Story Behind Wharton Convocation and 7 Pieces of Advice to Begin Your Academic JourneyThink of Convocation as a bookend to Commencement you walk together as a class for the first time through the doors of Irvine Auditorium and in two years, youll process out of the Palestra as Wharton graduates.ReadMore Wharton Stories - 08/06/2018All Stories Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
