Robert A. Stine Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Robert A. Stine Professor Emeritus of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: stine@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-3114 office Address: 444 Jon M. Huntsman Hall3730 Walnut StreetPhiladelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: credit scoring, model selection, pattern recognition and classification, statistical computing and graphics, time series analysis and forecasting Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Education PhD, Princeton University, 1982 MA, Princeton University, 1979 BS, University of South Carolina, 1977 Recent Consulting Fraud detection in loan applications; validating models in use for consumer credit default. Career and Recent Professional Awards Miller-Sherrerd MBA Core Teaching Award, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2010 David W. Hauck Award for Outstanding Teaching, 2001 Excellence in Teaching Award (Undergraduate Division), 2001, 2004 Academic Positions Held Wharton: 1979-present (Research Associate, Analysis Center for Evaluation of Energy Modeling and Statistics, 1979-83, Director of Computing Analysis Center, 1979-83). Previous appointments: Princeton University; University of Michigan; University of South Carolina. Visiting appointment: University of Michigan Other Positions Summer Intern, Office of Energy Information Administration, U.S. Department of Energy, 1978 For more information, go to My Personal Page Continue Reading Research Sivan Aldor-Noiman, Lawrence D. Brown, Emily Fox, Robert A. Stine (2017), Spatio-temporal Low Count Processes with Application to Violent Crime Events, Statistica Sinica, 26, pp. 1587-1610.Robert A. Stine (2017), Explaining Normal Quantile-Quantile Plots Through Animation: The Water-Filling Analogy, The American Statistician, 71 (2), pp. 145-147.Robert A. Stine and Dean P. Foster, Statistics for Business: Decision Making and Analysis (Boston: Pearson, 2017)Kory Johnson, Dean P. Foster, Robert A. Stine (Working), Impartial Predictive Modeling: Ensuring Fairness in Arbitrary Models.Kory Johnson, Robert A. Stine, Dean P. Foster (Working), Submodularity in statistics: Comparing the success of model selection methods.Kory Johnson, Dean P. Foster, Robert A. Stine (Working), Revisiting alpha investing: conditionally valid stepwise regression.Dean P. Foster and Robert A. Stine (2015), Risk Inflation of Sequential Tests Controlled by Alpha Investing, Journal of Statistical Computation and Simulation, 85, pp. 3613-3627.Dean P. Foster, Mark Liberman, Robert A. Stine (Working), Featurizing text: Converting text into predictors for regression analysis.Dean P. Foster and Robert A. Stine (2014), Risk Inflation of Sequential Tests Controlled by Alpha Investing, Journal of Statistical Computation and Simulation.Sivan Aldor-Noiman, Lawrence D. Brown, Andreas Buja, Wolfgang Rolke, Robert A. Stine (2013), The Power to See: A New Graphical Test of Normality, The American Statistician , 67 (4), pp. 249-260.Abstract: Many statistical procedures assume that the underlying data-generating process involves Gaussian errors. Among the popular tests for normality, only the KolmogorovSmirnov test has a graphical representation. Alternative tests, such as the ShapiroWilk test, offer little insight as to how the observed data deviate from normality. In this article, we discuss a simple new graphical procedure which provides simultaneous confidence bands for a normal quantilequantile plot. These bands define a test of normality and are narrower in the tails than those related to the KolmogorovSmirnov test. Correspondingly, the new procedure has greater power to detect deviations from normality in the tails. Supplementary materials for this article are available online. Teaching Past CoursesSTAT102 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Continuation of STAT 101. A thorough treatment of multiple regression, model selection, analysis of variance, linear logistic regression; introduction to time series. Business applications. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT399 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll in this course. STAT405 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT430 - PROBABILITY Discrete and continuous sample spaces and probability; random variables, distributions, independence; expectation and generating functions; Markov chains and recurrence theory. STAT510 - PROBABILITY Elements of matrix algebra. Discrete and continuous random variables and their distributions. Moments and moment generating functions. Joint distributions. Functions and transformations of random variables. Law of large numbers and the central limit theorem. Point estimation: sufficiency, maximum likelihood, minimum variance. Confidence intervals. A one-year course in calculus is recommended. STAT511 - STATISTICAL INFERENCE Graphical displays; one- and two-sample confidence intervals; one- and two-sample hypothesis tests; one- and two-way ANOVA; simple and multiple linear least-squares regression; nonlinear regression; variable selection; logistic regression; categorical data analysis; goodness-of-fit tests. A methodology course. STAT613 - REGR ANALYSIS FOR BUS This course provides the fundamental methods of statistical analysis, the art and science if extracting information from data. The course will begin with a focus on the basic elements of exploratory data analysis, probability theory and statistical inference. With this as a foundation, it will proceed to explore the use of the key statistical methodology known as regression analysis for solving business problems, such as the prediction of future sales and the response of the market to price changes. The use of regression diagnostics and various graphical displays supplement the basic numerical summaries and provides insight into the validity of the models. Specific important topics covered include least squares estimation, residuals and outliers, tests and confidence intervals, correlation and autocorrelation, collinearity, and randomization. The presentation relies upon computer software for most of the needed calculations, and the resulting style focuses on construction of models, interpretation of results, and critical evaluation of assumptions. STAT621 - ACC REGRESSION ANALYSIS STAT 621 is intended for students with recent, practical knowledge of the use of regression analysis in the context of business applications. This course covers the material of STAT 613, but omits the foundations to focus on regression modeling. The course reviews statistical hypothesis testing and confidence intervals for the sake of standardizing terminology and introducing software, and then moves into regression modeling. The pace presumes recent exposure to both the theory and practice of regression and will not be accommodating to students who have not seen or used these methods previously. The interpretation of regression models within the context of applications will be stressed, presuming knowledge of the underlying assumptions and derivations. The scope of regression modeling that is covered includes multiple regression analysis with categorical effects, regression diagnostic procedures, interactions, and time series structure. The presentation of the course relies on computer software that will be introduced in the initial lectures. Recent exposure to the theory and practice of regression modeling is recommended. STAT701 - MODERN DATA MINING Modern Data Mining: Statistics or Data Science has been evolving rapidly to keep up with the modern world. While classical multiple regression and logistic regression technique continue to be the major tools we go beyond to include methods built on top of linear models such as LASSO and Ridge regression. Contemporary methods such as KNN (K nearest neighbor), Random Forest, Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analyses (PCA), the bootstrap and others are also covered. Text mining especially through PCA is another topic of the course. While learning all the techniques, we keep in mind that our goal is to tackle real problems. Not only do we go through a large collection of interesting, challenging real-life data sets but we also learn how to use the free, powerful software "R" in connection with each of the methods exposed in the class. Prerequisite: two courses at the statistics 400 or 500 level or permission from instructor. STAT705 - STAT COMPUTING WITH R The goal of this course is to introduce students to the R programming language and related eco-system. This course will provide a skill-set that is in demand in both the research and business environments. In addition, R is a platform that is used and required in other advanced classes taught at Wharton, so that this class will prepare students for these higher level classes and electives. STAT724 - TEXT ANALYTICS This course introduces methods for the analysis of unstructured data, focusing on statistical models for text. Techniques include those for sentiment analysis, topic models, and predictive analytics. Course includes topics from natural language processing (NLP), such as identifying parts of speech, parsing sentences (e.g., subject and predicate), and named entity recognition (people and places). Unsupervised techniques suited to feature creation provide variables suited to traditional statistical models (regression) and more recent approaches (regression trees). Examples that span the course illustrate the success of text analytics. Hierarchical generating models often associated with nonparametric Bayesian analysis supply theoretical foundations. Students should be familiar with regression models at the level of STAT 613 and the R statistics language at the level of STAT 705. Familiarity with the R-Studio development environment is presumed, as well as common R packages such as stringr, dplyr and ggplot. Those with more knowledge of Statistics, such as from STAT 722, or computing skills will benefit. The predominant software used in the course is R, with bits of JMP when helpful for interactive illustration. Familiarity with basic probability models is helpful but not presumed. STAT899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor, the department MBA advisor and course coordinator required to enroll. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Wharton MBA Excellence in Teaching Award, 2012Helen Kardon Moss Anvil Award for MBA Teaching, 2011Wharton MBA Excellence in Teaching Award, 2009Wharton MBA Excellence in Teaching Award, 2006-2007Excellence in Teaching Award (Undergraduate Division), 2004Miller-Sherrerd Wharton MBA Core Teaching Award, 2003David W. Hauck Award for Outstanding Teaching, 2001Excellence in Teaching Award (Undergraduate Division), 2001Miller-Sherrerd Wharton MBA Core Teaching Award, 1999Wharton MBA Core Curriculum Teaching Award, 1996Excellence in Teaching Award (Undergraduate Division), 1995Miller-Sherrerd Wharton MBA Core Teaching Award, 1994-1995 In the News Knowledge @ WhartonMore Savings, Less Plastic: Consumer Credit after the Crisis, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/8/2009Polling the Polling Experts: How Accurate and Useful Are Polls These Days?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/14/2007Tip of the Spear: Leadership Lessons from the U.S.-led Armed Forces in the Middle East, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/17/2006Mining Data for Nuggets of Knowledge, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/10/1999Wharton StoriesHow This PhD Student Discovered a Dynamic Research Community at Wharton, Wharton Stories - 11/13/2014 ActivityLatest ResearchSivan Aldor-Noiman, Lawrence D. Brown, Emily Fox, Robert A. Stine (2017), Spatio-temporal Low Count Processes with Application to Violent Crime Events, Statistica Sinica, 26, pp. 1587-1610.All ResearchIn the NewsMore Savings, Less Plastic: Consumer Credit after the CrisisThe harsh economic downturn that has chastened credit-happy consumers, along with increased scrutiny by regulators, will force card issuers to rethink their business models as the economy begins to recover, according to Wharton faculty and credit industry analysts. Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/8/2009All NewsWharton StoriesHow This PhD Student Discovered a Dynamic Research Community at WhartonSivan Aldor-Noiman, GR12, came to Wharton Doctoral Programs from a small statistics program in Israel, and found herself in a dynamic center of intellectual life.ReadMore Wharton Stories - 11/13/2014All Stories Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
