Luisa Whittaker-Brooks - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science Main NavigationRevealMenu Search Site for: Submit Search Search Campus for: Submit Search Search Location Search Site Search Campus Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Heygine Plan(Safety Manual) Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living In Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Seminars Fall 2020 Spring 2021 Events Calandar Archive Directory Contact Us Faculty Auxiliary Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations DIVERSITY ABOUT DEMOGRAPHICS GET INVOLVED Home Directory Current Page: Luisa Whittaker-Brooks Luisa Whittaker-Brooks INORGANIC/MATERIALS CHEMISTRY Assistant Professor B.S.,University of PanamaM.S., State University of New York at Buffalo, NY, USA Ph.D.,State University of New York at Buffalo, NY, USAL'Oreal USA for Women in Science Postdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University Phone: (801) 587-9973Office: 1320A HEBEmail: lwhittaker@chem.utah.eduResearch Group Activities & Awards L'Oreal Fellowship for Women in ScienceAward, 2013 Graduate Student MRS Gold Award, 2011 Fulbright Fellowship, 2007-2009 Research Interests The Whittaker group aims to address important challenges related to the understanding of the relationships among the composition, structure, electronic structure, and properties of inorganic and organic nanomaterials, as well as their composites. Our efforts will be focused into three different directions in the areas of materials chemistry and nanotechnology, i.e., synthetic inorganic-organic chemistry, spectroscopy, and nanofabrication of functional devices. Specifically, our group is driven by two of the greatest challenges of our time energy beyond fossil fuel and environment and low cost electronics for daily use applications. We plan to embark in these new endeavors by synthesizing well-defined and high-quality materials for applications in solar energy conversion, thermoelectrics, batteries, and electronics. We will also test new hybrid concepts in terms of integrating several technologies that can simultaneously perform multiple tasks at once. For example, we envision to fabricate a multimodal energy device that can scavenge different kinds of energies for driving micro/nanosystems. As far as training is concerned, members of our group will become proficient in a variety of techniques and will build-up top-notch expertise in inorganic-organic synthesis at ambient and high temperature conditions, morphological and crystal structure characterization (STEM, TEM, EEELS, SEM, etc.), in-house spectroscopy characterization (UV-VIS, PL, IR), and device fabrication (e-beam and photolithography). To assist in understanding the electronic, magnetic and structural modifications of ensemble materials, members of our group are expected to acquire strong proficiency in different Synchrotron techniques such as, grazing incidence X-ray diffraction (GIXD), near-edge extended X-ray absorption fine (NEXAFS) spectroscopy, and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) spectroscopy. Synchrotron studies will be performed at the Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source (CHESS) and at the National Synchrotron Light Source at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Selected Publications Luisa Whittaker-Brooks, William E. McClain, Jeffrey Schwartz, and Yueh-LinLoo. Donor-Acceptor Interfacial Interactions Dominate Device Performance in Hybrid P3HT-ZnO Nanowire-Array Solar Cells. Adv. Energ. Mater. DOI:10.1002/aenm.201400585 Luisa Whittaker-Brooks, Arthur Woll, Detlef Smingles and Yueh-Lin Loo. Sputtered ZnO seed layer strongly enhances photovoltaic behavior in hybrid organic solar cells. Org. Electron., 2013. Luisa Whittaker, Tai-Lung Wu, Adam Stabile, G. Sambandamurthy, and Sarbajit Banerjee, Single-nanowire Raman microprobe studies of doping-, temperature-, and voltage induced metalinsulator transitions ofW xV1xO2 nanowires. ACS Nano, 2011, 5, 8861-8867. Luisa Whittaker, Christopher Patridge and Sarbajit Banerjee, A microscopic and nanoscale perspective of the metal-insulator phase transitions of VO2: some new twists to an old tale. J. Phys.Chem. Lett., 2011, 2, 745-758. Luisa Whittaker, Cherno Jaye, Zugen Fu, Daniel A. Fischer, and Sarbajit Banerjee, Depressed phase transition in solution-grown VO2 nanostructures. Journal of the American Chemical Society,2009, 131, 8884-8894. Stay In Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Fine Print Disclaimer Privacy Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020 Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801-581-6681 2020 The University of Utah Privacy Policy Disclaimer Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Last Updated: 7/17/20
