Eric T Bradlow Statistics Department Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty & Research Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Executive Education Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Statistics Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty List Faculty Awards Recruiting Energy Analytics, Causal Inference, and Machine Learning Postdoc Research Research Papers / Publications Research Centers Wharton Seminars / Conferences Previous Statistics Seminars Related Seminars Programs Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Contact Information Undergraduate Statistics Concentration Undergraduate Statistics Minor Business Analytics Joint Concentration Undergraduate Course Descriptions Undergraduate Course Schedule Undergraduate Employment and Educational Opportunities MBA Program MBA Contact Information MBA Major in Statistics MBA Major in Business Analytics MBA Major in Actuarial Science MBA Course Descriptions MBA Course Schedule PhD Program PhD Contact Information PhD Curriculum PhD Course Descriptions PhD Course Schedule Current PhD Students Prospective PhD Students Apply to Wharton Financial Aid Dual Masters Degree in Statistics The Actuarial Science Program Actuarial Contact Information Reimbursement of Exam Fees, Library of Study Manuals Professional Examinations and Actuarial Courses at Wharton Course Requirements: Actuarial Science Concentration Course Requirements: University Minor in Actuarial Mathematics Course Requirements: MBA Major in Actuarial Science Prizes, Awards, and Scholarships for Actuarial Students Penn Actuarial Society Executive Education Resources Department Information Faculty PhD Students Postdoctoral Researchers Administrative Staff Contact Us Directions / Office Map Find an Expert Eric T Bradlow The K.P. Chao ProfessorProfessor of MarketingVice Dean of Analytics at WhartonChairperson, Wharton Marketing DepartmentProfessor of Economics; Professor of Education; Professor of Statistics Contact Information Primary Email: ebradlow@wharton.upenn.eduOffice Phone: (215) 898-8255Mobile Phone: (610) 322-8091 office Address: 761 Jon M. Huntsman Hall 3730 Walnut Street University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: Bayesian computation, latent variable models, marketing research methods, missing data problems, analytics, psychometrics Links: CV, Twitter Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Professor Eric T. Bradlow is the K.P. Chao Professor, Professor of Marketing, Statistics, Education and Economics, Chairperson of Whartons Marketing Department, and Vice-Dean of Analytics at Wharton. An applied statistician, Professor Bradlow uses high-powered statistical models to solve problems on everything from Internet search engines to product assortment issues. Specifically, his research interests include Bayesian modeling, statistical computing, and developing new methodology for unique data structures with application to business problems. Eric is a fellow of the INFORMS Society for Marketing Science, a fellow of the American Statistical Association, a fellow of the American Educational Research Association, is past chair of the American Statistical Association Section on Statistics in Marketing, past Editor-in-Chief of Marketing Science, is a past statistical fellow of Bell Labs, and worked at DuPont Corporations Corporate Marketing and Business Research Division and the Educational Testing Service. A prolific scholar, Professor Bradlows research has been published in top-tier academic journals such as the Journal of the American Statistical Association, Psychometrika, Statistica Sinica, Chance, Marketing Science, Management Science, and Journal of Marketing Research. He also serves as Associate Editor for the Journal of the American Statistical Association and the Journal of Marketing Research, and is on the Editorial Boards of Marketing Letters, Marketing Science, Journal of Marketing Research, Quantitative Marketing and Economics, and the Quarterly Journal of Electronic Commerce. Professor Bradlow has won numerous teaching awards at Wharton, including the Linback Award for Distinguished PhD Teaching and Mentoring, the Anvil Award for MBA Education, MBA Core Curriculum teaching award, the Miller-Sherrerd MBA Core Teaching award and the Excellence in Teaching Award. His teaching interests include courses in Statistics, Marketing Research, Marketing Management and PhD Data Analysis, as well as any material related to customer analytics. Professor Bradlow earned his PhD and Masters degrees in Mathematical Statistics from Harvard University and his BS in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania. Continue Reading Research Qi Yu, Ron Berman, Eric Bradlow (Working), The Dark Side of Adding a Category: Will Existing Ones Pay the Price.Abstract: More is better has been a belief held by many retailers when they manage product assortments. We challenge this conventional wisdom by demonstrating that a retailer may face more price sensitive demand for existing products when expanding its assortments. To measure the effects of assortment expansion on price sensitivity, we exploit the state of Washingtons privatization of liquor sales in 2012 that generated exogenous variation in retailers assortments over time. We find that customers are on average more price sensitive when purchasing from other drink categories after a store started to carry liquor but its impact is heterogeneous. To understand the differential changes in the price sensitivity across product categories depending on whether they are complements or substitutes to the new one, we build a demand model that simultaneously estimates the degree of complementarity between product categories and the changes in price sensitivity upon assortment expansion. We find that the increase in the price sensitivity happens in product categories that are complements to the new one, and that these changes cannot be rationalized by alternative explanations, e.g., correlated preferences across product categories and changes in error variance. Based on the demand estimates, we conduct counterfactual simulations and show that the observed prices are consistent with retailers (biased) belief that the price sensitivity does not vary with assortment, which results in significant profit loss.Mingyung Kim, Eric Bradlow, Raghuram Iyengar, Selecting Data Granularity and Model Specification Using the Scaled Power Likelihood with Multiple Weights.ludovic stourm, Raghuram Iyengar, Eric Bradlow (2020), A Flexible Demand Model for Complements Using Household Production Theory, Marketing Science, 39, pp. 763-787.Qi Yu, Ron Berman, Eric Bradlow, Pricing Strategy Post Assortment Expansion.Daniel Zantedeschi, Elea McDonnell Feit, Eric Bradlow (2017), Measuring Multi-Channel Advertising Response, Management Science, 63 (8), pp. 2706-2708.Abstract: Advances in data collection have made it increasingly easy to collect information on advertising exposures. However, translating this seemingly rich data into measures of advertising response has proven difficult, largely because of concerns that advertisers target customers with a higher propensity to buy or increase advertising during periods of peak demand. We show how this problem can be addressed by studying a setting where a firm randomly held out customers from each campaign, creating a sequence of randomized field experiments that mitigates (many) potential endogeneity problems. Exploratory analysis of individual holdout experiments shows positive effects for both email and catalog; however, the estimated effect for any individual campaign is imprecise, because of the small size of the holdout. To pool data across campaigns, we develop a hierarchical Bayesian model for advertising response that allows us to account for individual differences in purchase propensity and marketing response. Building on the traditional ad-stock framework, we are able to estimate separate decay rates for each advertising medium, allowing us to predict channel-specific short- and long-term effects of advertising and use these predictions to inform marketing strategy. We find that catalogs have substantially longer-lasting impact on customer purchase than emails. We show how the model can be used to score and target individual customers based on their advertising responsiveness, and we find that targeting the most responsive customers increases the predicted returns on advertising by approximately 70% versus traditional recency, frequency, and monetary valuebased targeting.Tong Lu, Eric Bradlow, J. Wesley Hutchinson, Binge Consumption of Online Content.Julie Novak, Eleanor McDonnell Feit, Shane T. Jensen, Eric Bradlow (Working), Bayesian Imputation for Anonymous Visits.Valeria Stourm, Eric Bradlow, Peter Fader (2015), Stockpiling Points in Linear Loyalty Programs, Journal of Marketing Research, 52 (2), pp. 253-267.Abstract: Customers often stockpile reward points in linear loyalty programs (i.e., programs that do not explicitly reward stockpiling) despite several economic incentives against it (e.g., the time value of money). The authors develop a mathematical model of redemption choice that unites three explanations for why customers seem to be motivated to stockpile on their own, even though the retailer does not reward them for doing so. These motivations are economic (the value of forgone points), cognitive (nonmonetary transaction costs), and psychological (customers value points differently than cash). The authors capture the psychological motivation by allowing customers to book cash and point transactions in separate mental accounts. They estimate the model on data from an international retailer using Markov chain Monte Carlo methods and accurately forecast redemptions during an 11-month out-of-sample period. The results indicate substantial heterogeneity in how customers are motivated to redeem and suggest that the behavior in the data is driven mostly by cognitive and psychological incentives. Yao Zhang, Eric Bradlow, Dylan Small (2015), Predicting Customer Value Using Clumpiness: From RFM to RFMC, Marketing Science, 34 (2), pp. 195-208.P. Wang, Eric Bradlow, Edward I. George (2014), Meta-Analyses Using Information Reweighting: An Application to Online Advertising, Quantitative Marketing and Economics, 12 (2), pp. 209-233. Teaching Past CoursesMGMT653 - FIELD APPLICATION PROJ FAP is an experiential-based course where learning is done outside of the classroom. It is unique in its lack of a classroom setting all meetings take place in a professor's office in small teams of 4 to 6 students. Teams are faced withreal-time issues of outside organizations and work with faculty and host managers to construct innovative solutions. Solutions are integrative and cross-functional in nature. We encourage creative thinking giving students wide access towhat we call "area of expertise" faculty. Depending on the project scope we help students arrange meetings with professors who are experts in their field. Host organizations range from large multinational firms to start-ups. A significant percentage of the projects are with non-profits and organizations focused on social causes. Format: Teams (4-6 members) meet with faculty on a weekly basis (30-45 minutes). There are also 3-5 meetings with host managers. In addition to meeting with aFaculty Head, students are given access to "area of expertise" faculty. These faculty members are chosen based on their specific expertise. The final deliverable consists of an oral presentation and a written document. Requirements: Weekly team meetings with faculty project head and a final PowerPoint report and presentation. MKTG212 - DATA & ANLZ FOR MKTG DEC This course introduces students to the fundamentals of data-driven marketing, including topics from marketing research and analytics. It examines the many different sources of data available to marketers, including data from customer transactions, surveys, pricing, advertising, and A/B testing, and how to use those data to guide decision-making. Through real-world applications from various industries, including hands-on analyses using modern data analysis tools, students will learn how to formulate marketing problems as testable hypotheses, systematically gather data, and apply statistical tools to yield actionable marketing insights. MKTG399 - INDEPENDENT STUDYMKTG611 - MARKETING MANAGEMENT This course addresses how to design and implement the best combination of marketing efforts to carry out a firm's strategy in its target markets. Specifically, this course seeks to develop the student's (1) understanding of how the firm can benefit by creating and delivering value to its customers, and stakeholders, and (2) skills in applying the analytical concepts and tools of marketing to such decisions as segmentation and targeting, branding, pricing, distribution, and promotion. The course uses lectures and case discussions, case write-ups, student presentations, and a comprehensive final examination to achieve these objectives. MKTG612 - DYNAMIC MKTG STRATEGY Building upon Marketing 611, the goal of this course is to develop skills in formulating and implementing marketing strategies for brands and businesses. The course will focus on issues such as the selection of which businesses and segments to compete in, how to allocate resources across businesses, segments, and elements of the marketing mix, as well as other significant strategic issues facing today's managers in a dynamic competitive environment. A central theme of the course is that the answer to these strategic problems varies over time depending on the stage of the product life cycle at which marketing decisions are being made. As such, the PLC serves as the central organizing vehicle of the course. We will explore such issues as how to design optimal strategies for the launch of new products and services that arise during the introductory phase, how to maximize the acceleration of revenue during the growth phase, how to sustain and extend profitability during the mature phase, and how to manage a business during the inevitable decline phase. MKTG613 - STRATGIC MKTG SIMULATION Building upon Marketing 611, Marketing 613 is an intensive immersion course designed to develop skills in formulating and implementing marketing strategies for brands and businesses. The central activity will be participation in a realistic integrative product management simulation named SABRE. In SABRE, students will form management teams that oversee all critical aspects of modern product management: the design and marketing of new products, advertising budgeting and design, sales force sizing and allocation, and production planning. As in the real world, teams will compete for profitability, and the success that each team has in achieving this goal will be a major driver of the class assessment. The SABRE simulation is used to convey the two foci of learning in the course: the changing nature of strategic problems and their optimal solutions as industries progress through the product life cycle, and exposure to the latest analytic tools for solving these problems. Specifically, SABRE management teams will receive training in both how to make optimal use of marketing research information to reduce uncertainty in product design and positioning, as well as decision support models to guide resource allocation. MKTG899 - INDEPENDENT STUDY A student contemplating an independent study project must first find a faculty member who agrees to supervise and approve the student's written proposal as an independent study (MKTG 899). If a student wishes the proposed work to be used to meet the ASP requirement, he/she should then submit the approved proposal to the MBA adviser who will determine if it is an appropriate substitute. Such substitutions will only be approved prior to the beginning of the semester. MKTG956 - EMPIRICAL MODELS MKTG A This course is designed to generate knowledge of the use of quantitative statistical, econometric, and Machine Learning methods and their application to Marketing problems. A strong emphasis is also placed on the applied nature of applying these methods in terms of data requirements, exogenous versus endogenous variation, and computational challenges when using complex models. Students outside of Marketing are welcome, and we discuss how these models can be applied to other disciplines. By the end of the course, students should be familiar with the key issues and approaches in empirical marketing modeling. MKTG957 - EMPIRICAL MODELS MKTG B This course is designed to generate awareness and appreciation of the way several substantive topics in marketing have been studied empirically using quantitative models. This seminar reviews empirical models of marketing phenomena including consumer choice, adoption of new products, sales response to marketing mix elements, and competitive interaction. Applies methods and concepts developed in econometrics and statistics but focuses on substantive issues of model structure and interpretation, rather than on estimation techniques. Ultimately, the goals are a) to prepare students to read and understand the literature and b) to stimulate new research interests. By the end of the course, students should be familiar with the key issues and approaches in empirical marketing modeling. MKTG995 - DISSERTATIONMKTG999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Requires written permission of instructor and the department graduate adviser. PSYC611 - APPLIED REG & ANALY VAR An applied graduate level course in multiple regression and analysis of variance for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Covers model building, general linear hypothesis, residual analysis, leverage and influence, one-way anova, two-way anova, factorial anova. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. PSYC612 - INT TO NONP & LOGLIN MOD An applied graduate level course for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Covers two unrelated topics: loglinear and logit models for discrete data and nonparametric methods for nonnormal data. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT101 - INTRO BUSINESS STAT Data summaries and descriptive statistics; introduction to a statistical computer package; Probability: distributions, expectation, variance, covariance, portfolios, central limit theorem; statistical inference of univariate data; Statistical inference for bivariate data: inference for intrinsically linear simple regression models. This course will have a business focus, but is not inappropriate for students in the college. This course may be taken concurrently with the prerequisite with instructor permission. STAT111 - INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS Introduction to concepts in probability. Basic statistical inference procedures of estimation, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing directed towards applications in science and medicine. The use of the JMP statistical package. Knowledge of high school algebra is required for this course. STAT500 - APPLIED REG & ANALY VAR An applied graduate level course in multiple regression and analysis of variance for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Covers model building, general linear hypothesis, residual analysis, leverage and influence, one-way anova, two-way anova, factorial anova. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT501 - INT TO NONP & LOGLIN MOD An applied graduate level course for students who have completed an undergraduate course in basic statistical methods. Covers two unrelated topics: loglinear and logit models for discrete data and nonparametric methods for nonnormal data. Emphasis is on practical methods of data analysis and their interpretation. Primarily for doctoral students in the managerial, behavioral, social and health sciences. Permission of instructor required to enroll. STAT995 - DISSERTATIONSTAT999 - INDEPENDENT STUDY Written permission of instructor and the department course coordinator required to enroll. Awards and Honors Linback Award for Distinguished PhD Teaching and Mentoring, 2020J.B. Steenkamp Long-Term Impact Award, IJRM Best Paper, 2016Anvil Award, Best Teacher in Wharton MBA Program, 2015Inaugural Fellow of the University of Pennsylvania, 2009Fellow of the American Education Research Association, 2009Finalist, H. Paul Root Award, Best Paper in Journal of Marketing, 2009Finalist, John D.C. Little Best Paper Award, 2008Wharton East WEMBA Teaching Award, 2008American Marketing Association EXPLOR Award, 2007Wharton East WEMBA Teaching Award, 2007Wharton School, MBA Excellence in Teaching Award, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2006 DescriptionWharton School, MBA Excellence in Teaching Award NCME Technical or Scientific Contribution to the Field of Educational Measurement: Development of Testlet Response Theory, 2006Wharton East WEMBA Teaching Award, 2006Wharton School, MBA Excellence in Teaching Award, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2006Goes Above and Beyond the Call of Duty Wharton MBA Teaching Award, 2006Fellow of the American Statistical Association, 2005 DescriptionFellow of the American Statistical Association First recipient of The K.P. Chao Professorship, 2005 DescriptionNamed the first recipient of The K.P. Chao Professorship Helen Kardon Moss Anvil Award Finalist, 2001-2002, 2004-2005, 2005Appointed Fellow of the American Statistical Association, 2005Finalist, Paul E. Green Award for the best paper in Journal of Marketing Research, 2004 DescriptionA Learning-based Model for Imputing Missing Levels in Partial Conjoint Profiles, co-authored with Y. Hue and T-H Ho, lead article and discussion paper, Vol. XLI (November 2004), 369-38 Wharton Undergraduate Excellence in Teaching Award, 2004, 2004Wharton School, MBA Excellence in Teaching Award, 2005 Description2003, 2004, 2005 AERA Outstanding Reviewer, 2003 DescriptionAERA Outstanding Reviewer Wharton West WEMBA Teaching Award, 2003 DescriptionWharton West WEMBA Teaching Award AERA Outstanding Reviewer, 2003Helen Kardon Moss Anvil Award Finalist, 2005 Description2001-2002, 2004-2005 Miller-Sherrerd MBA Core Teaching Award, 2002 Description1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 Wharton MBA Core Curriculum Teaching Award, 2001 Description1998, 1999, 2001 Appointed Research Consultant, AT&T Bell Laboratories, 1997 DescriptionAppointed Research Consultant, AT&T Bell Laboratories Finalist, American Statistical Association Savage Award Dissertation Prize, 1997 DescriptionFinalist, American Statistical Association Savage Award Dissertation Prize E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company young researcher award, 1992 DescriptionCorporate Marketing Division Harvard University Derek Bok Center for excellence in teaching, 1991 Description4-time winner Linback Award for Distinguished PhD Teaching and Mentoring, 1970 In the News A Statistical Look at Roger Clemens Career, New York Times - 02/10/2008Knowledge @ WhartonHow Data Analytics Can Boost Any Organizations Performance, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/31/2019How Will Targeted Ads Fare in an Era of Data Protection?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/22/2018Separating Better Data from Big Data: Where Analytics Is Headed, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/10/2018What Wharton Faculty Would Have Asked Mark Zuckerberg, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/12/2018Beyond Netflix: How Binging Impacts Online Learning, Knowledge @ Wharton - 9/12/2017Leveraging Smart Data for Business Success, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/26/2017Will Microsofts LinkedIn Purchase Pay Off?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/16/2016Whats Behind Googles Alphabet Restructuring?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/14/2015How Brands Can Build Better Loyalty Programs, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/30/2015Are Your Customers Clumpy? What Binge-buying Means for Marketers, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/17/2014Alibabas Next Move: Grow Abroad, or Go Deeper into China?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/1/2014Why Consumers Arent Buying the Idea of Mobile Wallets Yet, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/13/2014How to Fix Google+: Accentuate the Positive, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/11/2014Finding a Place for Market Research in a Big Data, Tech-enabled World, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/29/2014In a Dysfunctional Industry, Pandora Seeks an Algorithm for Profitability, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/31/2013Advice for YouTube: Find a Subscription Model to Keep Viewers Clicking, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/17/2013Predicting and Monetizing the Lifespan of a Tweet, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/17/2013On Wall Street, Netflix Is a Comeback Kid But Can It Stay on Top?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/5/2013The Social Credit Score: Separating the Data from the Noise, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/5/2013The Mysterious World of Bitcoin: Does It Have Staying Power?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/24/2013As Companies Focus on Services, Will Hardware Become Irrelevant?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/7/2012Box Office Blues, Knowledge @ Wharton - 9/5/2012Finding the Right Tool to Unlock the Power of Data, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/29/2012Does NBCs Olympic Coverage Deserve the Gold?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/13/2012What Can We Learn from Netflix?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/7/2012NBCs Olympic Tape Delays: #Failing All the Way to the Top?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/3/2012How Yahoo Can Search for its Growth Engine, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/13/2012Digging Below the Surface of Microsofts Tablet Strategy, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/21/2012Calling Facebook: Do You Really Need a Phone?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/7/2012How Baby Names Can Help Marketers Predict the Next Big Thing, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/27/2012Yelps Impending IPO: Whats the Review?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/21/2012Experts All Atwitter about Super Bowl Ads, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/6/2012Customer Analytics: A New Lifeline for the Red Cross and Other Nonprofits?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/1/2012$133,000 Per Second, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/9/2012The Customer Lifetime Value Equation: Will It Pay Off for Tech Companies?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/7/2011Is Going to College Worth the Investment?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/26/2011Yahoo: Lets Make a Deal, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/24/2011Social Media in the C-Suite: Listening, Learning and Creating a Strategy from the Top Down, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/12/2011Will iPhone 4S Help Sprint Race Ahead?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/5/2011Dos and Donts for Amazons Redesign, Knowledge @ Wharton - 9/6/2011Can Anyone Create a Hacker-proof Cyberspace?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/6/2011Research Round Up: Overconfident CEOs, How to Boost In-store Sales and the Role of Nerves in Negotiation, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/8/2011Risky Business Becomes Riskier: A New Playbook for How Artists Are Compensated, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/16/2011An Apple for Teacher, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/9/2011Three Questions about the AOL-Huffington Post Deal, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/8/2011From Soccer to the Super Bowl: Measuring How and Where Fans Consume Sports, Knowledge @ Wharton - 2/2/2011Greenomics: Making Cents in a Low-Carbon World, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/12/2011Surrounded by Rivals, Can Research in Motion and the BlackBerry Prove That Its Hip to be Square?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/8/2010Tablet Wars: Can Rivals Unseat the iPad?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/10/2010Tackling the Concussion Issue: Can the NFL Protect Both Its Players and Its Product?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/10/2010Wharton StoriesWharton and WorkingNation Address Closing the Data Analytics Skills Gap, Wharton Stories - 03/22/2019WCAI Datathon Student Finalists Present Their Data Findings to Evite, Wharton Stories - 03/15/2019Biology, Consulting, and Coding: How This MBA Found His Passion in Tech, Wharton Stories - 01/16/2019The Story Behind Wharton Convocation and 7 Pieces of Advice to Begin Your Academic Journey, Wharton Stories - 08/06/2018How This Doctoral Student Is Exploring the Nexus Between Business and Brain Science, Wharton Stories - 08/03/2018Top 5 Developments in Analytics From 10 Years of the Wharton Customer Analytics Initiative, Wharton Stories - 05/14/2018WCAI Analytics Accelerator Challenge Bridges the Gap Between Academia and Industry, Wharton Stories - 02/07/2018Scaling Your Business with Analytics, Wharton Stories - 04/24/2017Intellectual Candy and Cross-Industry Connections at the Global Forum in Miami, Wharton Stories - 03/21/2017An MBA Entrepreneur Crosses the Globe to Launch Two Startups in His First Year, Wharton Stories - 08/02/2016 ActivityLatest ResearchQi Yu, Ron Berman, Eric Bradlow (Working), The Dark Side of Adding a Category: Will Existing Ones Pay the Price.All ResearchIn the NewsHow Data Analytics Can Boost Any Organizations PerformanceFour organizations presented a variety of data analytics challenges for Wharton/Penn students to solve at the recent WCAI Analytics Accelerator summit. Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/31/2019All NewsWharton MagazineWill Yahoos Merger With Verizon Pay Off?Verizon paid $4.8 billion in cash for the struggling internet pioneer. How can the telecom make its purchase worthwhile? Wharton Magazine - 10/27/2016Wharton StoriesWharton and WorkingNation Address Closing the Data Analytics Skills GapBusiness leaders and educators convened at Penn to speak on the rise of data analytics and filling the growing need for new jobs and more comprehensive education.ReadMore Wharton Stories - 03/22/2019All Stories Additional Links Statistics Department Home Faculty Recruiting Research Programs Resources Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff TwitterFacebookLinkedInYouTubeInstagramSupport Wharton2020The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Statistics Department | PrivacyPolicy | ReportAccessibilityIssuesandGetHelp
