Directory: Faculty - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science Main NavigationRevealMenu Search Site for: Submit Search Search Campus for: Submit Search Search Location Search Site Search Campus Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Heygine Plan(Safety Manual) Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living In Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Seminars Fall 2020 Spring 2021 Events Calandar Archive Directory Contact Us Faculty Auxiliary Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations DIVERSITY ABOUT DEMOGRAPHICS GET INVOLVED Home Directory Current Page: Directory: Faculty Michael Grnwald PHYSICAL & MATERIALS CHEMISTRY Assistant Professor Ph.D., University of Vienna, Austria, 2009Postdoctoral Researcher, UC Berkeley, 2009-2012University Assistant, University of Vienna, Austria, 2012-2014 Phone:(801) 581-8023Office:4625 Thatcher BuildingEmail:michael.gruenwald@utah.eduResearch Group Activities & Awards ASCINA Young Scientist Award, 2013 Schrdinger Postdoctoral Fellow, 2011-2013 Research Interests Living system organize their microscopic structure through the spontaneous self-assembly of nanometer-sized biomolecular building blocks. The structural units that arise from such self-assembly processes are complex, highly functional, and have the ability to adapt to environmental changes. Experimental attempts to mimic this strategy to build equally fascinating materials from synthetic nanoparticles, however, have been problematic. Due to a lack of understanding of the processes and forces that govern both the formation of nanoparticles and their self-assembly into super-structures, targeted nano-materials are frequently plagued by defects that diminish their function, or cannot be realized at all. My group is developing and using methods of computer simulation and statistical mechanics to unravel the microscopic mechanisms of the processes that determine the structure and self-assembly of nanoparticles. From the kinetics of nano-particle growth, to atomistic rearrangements inside a single nanocrystal, to the coarse-grained assembly dynamics of large ensembles of nanoparticles, our research aims to make experimentally relevant predictions for the development of functional nano-materials. Selected Publications M. Grnwald and P. L. Geissler, Patterns without patches: Hierarchical assembly of complex structures from simple building blocks, ACS Nano 8, 5891 (2014). M. Grnwald, K. Lutker, A. P. Alivisatos, E. Rabani, and P. L. Geissler, Metastability in pressure-induced structural transformations of CdSe/ZnS core/shell nanocrystals, Nano Letters 13, 1367 (2013). J. Henzie, M. Grnwald, A. Widmer-Cooper, P. L. Geissler, and P. Yang, Self-assembly of uniform polyhedral silver nanocrystals into densest packings and exotic superlattices, Nature Materials 11, 131-137 (2012). M. Grnwald and C. Dellago, Nucleation and growth in structural transformations of nanocrystals, Nano Lett. 9, 2099 (2009). Stay In Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Fine Print Disclaimer Privacy Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020 Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801-581-6681 2020 The University of Utah Privacy Policy Disclaimer Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Last Updated: 7/17/20
