Jennifer S. Shumaker-Parry - Department of Chemistry - The University of Utah Skip to content The University of Utah Department of Chemistry College of Science Main NavigationRevealMenu Search Site for: Submit Search Search Campus for: Submit Search Search Location Search Site Search Campus Main Menu Home News News Announcements Research About Analytical Biological Inorganic Materials Organic Physical REU Program Facilities About NMR Spectroscopy Mass Spectrometry Optical Spectroscopy Synthetic and Medical Chemistry X-Ray Electronics Shop Mechanical Shop Glass Blowing Shop Stockroom Safety Departmental Safety Safety Contacts Chemical Heygine Plan(Safety Manual) Undergraduate About Why Chemistry? Academic Advising Degree Options BS/MS Degree Program Courses Permission Codes Expected Learning Outcomes Academic Resources ACS Student Chapter TA Award Nominations Scholarships Job Opportunities Research Opportunities Post Graduate Opportunities Graduate Graduate Program Application Information Visit Us Living In Utah Graduate Student Resources CHEMSAC Community Giving to Chemistry Alumni Curie Club Faraday Lectures Newsletter Donors Faraday at Home Department History Part 1 Department History Part 2 Seminars Fall 2020 Spring 2021 Events Calandar Archive Directory Contact Us Faculty Auxiliary Faculty Staff Journals Intranet Room Reservations DIVERSITY ABOUT DEMOGRAPHICS GET INVOLVED Home Directory Current Page: Jennifer S. Shumaker-Parry Jennifer S. Shumaker-Parry ANALYTICAL, MATERIALS & PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY Professor B.S. University of South Dakota, 1995 Ph.D. University of Washington, 2002 NSF Mathematical and Physical Sciences Distinguished International Postdoctoral Research Fellow (MPS-DRF), Max Planck Institute for Polymer Research, Mainz, Germany, 2003-2004 Phone: (801) 585-1434Office: 2424 TBBCEmail: shumaker-parry@chem.utah.eduResearch Group Website Activities Jennifer Shumaker-Parry is a member of:Interfacial and Bioanalytical Chemistry (IBAC),Nano Institute of Utah, and NSF Center for Chemical Innovation: Chemistry at the Space Time Limit (CaSTL) Awards R.W. Parry Teaching Award, 2016 NSF CAREER Award, 2009 ACS PROGRESS/Dreyfus Lectureship, 2008 ADVANCE Young Scientist Lecturer, University of Arizona, 2008 NSF MPS Distinguished International Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, 2003 National Science Foundation Integrative Graduate Education and Research Training (IGERT) Fellowship, 2000 University of Washington Center for Nanotechnology Graduate Fellowship, 1999 Lloyd and Florence West Graduate Student Fellowship, 1999 Phi Beta Kappa, 1994 Research Interests Overview We investigate the optical, catalytic, and surface chemistry properties of nanomaterials for a wide range of applications. The fundamental understanding gained from our research impacts many areas of science and engineering, include micro- and nano-scale device fabrication, nano-scale imaging, nanolithography, catalysis, light-matter interactions, and sensor development. The broad nature of the multi-disciplinary research requires methods and tools from analytical chemistry, surface chemistry, biochemistry, materials science, nano\microfabrication, optics, spectroscopy, and microscopy. We regular interface with scientists and engineers outside of the Chemistry Department through collaborations and the use of scientific instruments. Designer plasmonic systems with tunable optical properties We are developing novel, broadly-applicable methods to tailor and exploit the optical properties of metal structures and nanoparticles in order to develop tunable sensing and spectroscopy platforms. The designer plasmon-active systems have unique optical properties that may be tailored through control of individual structure fabrication and spatially-controlled surface chemistry. The research approaches focus on the fabrication and optical characterization of well-defined, irregularly-shaped metal structures and the development of spatially-controlled surface functionalization methods to build multi-particle assemblies. The long term goal is to use the fundamental understanding of the correlation of optical properties with metal structure shape and assembly as a basis for tailoring the plasmonic systems for sensing and spectroscopy applications. Synthesis, interfacial chemistry, and catalytic activity of metal nanoparticles and support materials for heterogenous catalysis Exploration of different synthetic methods has led to new approaches for nanoparticle stabilization, flexible surface chemistry, and control over assembly and stability in different solvent environments. We have developed synthetic approaches based on novel reducing agents that serve dual roles and provide control of the properties of the materials. The surface chemistry, catalytic activity and optical properties of these materials are being studied. These studies include combining the nanoparticles with silica nanoparticles and synthetic nanodiamond as support materials for heterogeneous catalysis applications. The supports can be further functionalized with polymer brushes to control the local environment of nanoparticle and molecular catalysts. SPR microscopy for array-based analysis of biomolecule interactions Molecular recognition plays a central role in biology by controlling cellular processes such as enzymatic catalysis, transport, regulation and communication. We are developing and applying high-throughput sensing methods based on surface plasmon resonance (SPR) to study molecular recognition between biomolecules. SPR-based sensing provides real-time, quantitative analysis of biomolecule interactions (e.g., protein-DNA, protein-protein, protein-vesicle) without the need for labels. Detailed information about the strength and specificity of biomolecule interactions impacts medical research, diagnostics, drug discovery and fundamental molecular biology studies. A 48-channel flow system is integrated with our SPR microscope for in situ biomolecule immobilization and subsequent high-throughput biomolecule interaction analysis. In situ biomolecule immobilization and label-free, real-time kinetic analysis of biomolecule interactions potentially will impact the field of proteomics and extend high-throughput analysis to more biomimetic systems involving membrane-like systems. Selected Publications *Indicates undergraduate co-author Lancaster, C.; *Scholl, W.; *Ticknor, M.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Uniting Top-down and Bottom-up Strategies Using Fabricated Nanostructures as Hosts for Synthesis of Nanomites, J. Phys. Chem. C (2020) 124:6822-6829. Bornstein, M.F.; Parker, D.M.; Quast, A.D.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S.; Zharov, I., Reaction Conditions-Dependent Formation of Catalytically Active Palladium Complexes or Palladium Nanoparticles on a Silica Support, ChemCatChem, (2019) 11:4360-4367. Swartz, M.M.; Rodriguez, M.; Cooper, C.T.; Blair, S.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Aluminum Nanocrescent Plasmonic Antennas Fabricated by Copper Mask Nanosphere Template Lithography, J. Phys. Chem. C (2016) 120:20597-20603. Invited contribution for the Richard P. Van Duyne Fetschrift special issue. Quast, A.; Bornstein, M.; *Greydanus, B.J.; Zharov, I.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Robust Polymer-coated Diamond Supports for Noble Metal Nanoparticle Catalysts, ACS Catalysis (2016) 6:4729-4738. Lancaster, C.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Surface Preparation of Gold Nanostructures on Glass by UV Ozone and Oxygen Plasma for Thermal Atomic Layer Deposition of Al2O3, Thin Solid Films (2016) 612: 141-146. Cooper, C.T.; Bukasov, R.; Rodriguez, M.; Blair, S.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Mid-infrared Localized Plasmons Through Structural Control of Gold and Silver Nanocrescents, J. Phys. Chem. C (2015) 119:11826-11832. Park, J.-W.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., Structural Study of Citrate Layers on Gold Nanoparticles: Role of Intermolecular Interactions in Stabilizing Particles, J. Am. Chem. Soc. (2014) 136:1907-1921. Shem, P.M.; Sardar, R.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S., One-Step Synthesis of Phosphine-Stabilized Gold Nanoparticles Using the Mild Reducing Agent 9-BBN, Langmuir (2009), 25:13279-13283. Sardar, R.; Shumaker-Parry, J. S. 9-BBN Induced Synthesis of Nearly Monodisperse -Functionalized Alkylthiols Stabilized Gold Nanoparticles, Chem. Mater. (2009) 21:1167-1169. Bukasov, R.; Shumaker-Parry, J.S. Silver Nanocrescents with Infrared Plasmonic Properties as Tunable Substrates for Surface Enhanced Infrared Absorbance Spectroscopy, Anal. Chem. (2009) 81:4531-4535. Liu, J.; Eddings, M. A.; Eddings, M.; Miles, A. R.; Bukasov, R.; Gale, B. K.; Shumaker-Parry, J. S. In Situ Microarray Fabrication and Analysis Using a Microfluidic Flow Cell Array Integrated with Surface Plasmon Resonance Microscopy, Anal. Chem. (2009) 81:4296-4301. Sardar, R.; Shumaker-Parry, J. S.Asymmetrically-Functionalized Nanoparticles Organized in One-Dimensional Chains, Nano Letters (2008) 8:731-736. Sardar, R.; *Heap, T.; Shumaker-Parry, J. S. Versatile Solid Phase Synthesis of Gold Nanoparticle Dimers Using an Asymmetric Functionalization Approach, J. Am. Chem. Soc. (2007) 129:5356-5357. Bukasov, R.; Shumaker-Parry, J. S., Highly-Tunable Infrared Extinction Properties of Gold Nanocrescents, Nano Letters (2007) 7:113-1118. Stay In Touch Find Us Contact Us Webmaster Fine Print Disclaimer Privacy Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Department of Chemistry 315 S 1400 E, rm 2020 Salt Lake City, UT 84112 801-581-6681 2020 The University of Utah Privacy Policy Disclaimer Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Last Updated: 8/17/20
