Faculty Profile: Alexandra Kapatou | American University, Washington, DC Skip to main content Show Menu Search Search Website: Go Find People: Go Browse Departments & Services Log in myAU Portal Student GMail Canvas Blackboard Admissions Admissions Home Apply Undergraduate Graduate Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academics Home Degrees Registration Schedule of Classes Study Abroad Summer Programs Online Programs Honors & Learning Communities Schools & Colleges College of Arts & Sciences Kogod School of Business School of Communication School of Education School of International Service School of Professional & Extended Studies School of Public Affairs Washington College of Law Life at AU University Life Home Athletics Housing Dining & Retail New Students Career Services Student Organizations AU Arts Library Calendars Alumni Give to AU Research About Show navigation Faculty Profile: Alexandra Kapatou You are here: American University College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Alexandra Kapatou Back to previous page Teaching Partnerships Activities AU Experts AU News & Achievements Back to top Alexandra Kapatou Sr Professorial Lecturer Mathematics & Statistics Contact (202) 885-6471 (Office) (202) 885-3155 (Fax) CAS - Math and Statistics Don Myers Building - 6471 Degrees PhD, Statistics, Virginia Tech MS, Statistics, University of Georgia BS, Geology, National University in Athens, Greece Bio Alexandra (Aleka) Kapatou grew up in the sunny, Mediterranean country of Greece. Her studies in Greece included mathematics, architectural drawing, freehand drawing, and geology. After arriving in the US, and after some graduate studies in geosciences and geostatistics, she changed direction and studied theoretical and applied statistics where she found her niche. Aleka Kapatou has done research in quality and process control (mainly multivariate nonparametric control charts), and design of experiments with applications to clinical trials. Her current research interests include studies in education and risk analysis, especially as applied to food safety. She has served twice as the Chair of the Risk Analysis Section of the American Statistical Association (ASA). At American University, Aleka Kapatou teaches advanced graduate courses in statistics, as well as introductory undergraduate courses. She is the Director of the Statistical Consulting Center (SCC). SCC serves the University and the DC community, by providing statistical consulting free of charge. In return, Professor Kapatou's graduate students receive training in statistical consulting with actual live projects. In her personal time, Aleka Kapatou serves on the Board of Directors of the Tanterra Home Owners Association, which represents 390 households. She also represents Tanterra HOA at GOCA, the Greater Olney Civic Association. Aleka Kapatou is an avid reader of books on mysteries and comedies. Her favorite authors are Agatha Christie and P.G. Wodehouse. Due to her family history and experiences, she is also interested in the psychology of isolated, marginalized, and persecuted groups and vulnerable individuals; and the societal and cultural impact of oppression as expressed through songs and music. See Also Department of Mathematics and Statistics Statistical Consulting Center American Statistical Association Section on Risk Analysis, ASA Tanterra HOA For the Media To request an interview for a news story, call AU Communications at 202-885-5950 or submit a request. AU Experts Teaching Fall 2020 STAT-202 Basic Statistics STAT-202 Basic Statistics STAT-202 Basic Statistics Spring 2021 STAT-516 Design of Experiments STAT-798 Statistical Resch & Consulting Partnerships & Affiliations American Statistical Association Member Risk Analysis Section, ASA Past-Chair Statistical Consulting Center Director Scholarly, Creative & Professional Activities Research InterestsAleka Kapatou has done research on quality control and process control (mainly multivariate nonparametric control charts), and on design of experiments with applications to clinical trials. Her current research interests include studies in education and risk analysis, especially as applied to food safety. Professional PresentationsINVITED Session Discussant, Bernard Harris Memorial Symposium Risk in the 21st Century, Section on Risk Analysis, ASA, Institute of Advanced Analytics, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, will be published in proceedings (May 10-11, 2018). Invited panelist: Her Campus American: Women in STEM Panel. Invited to participate as a panelist in a presentation and discussion about including women and women's experiences in the STEM fields (Fall 2017). Presented a paper titled Improving Statistical Literacy Through Supplemental Instruction in ICOTS9, the International Conference on Teaching Statistics, Flagstaff, AZ (July 2014). Improving Risk Literacy through Supplemental Instruction, presented at the Joint Statistical Meetings, Montreal, Canada (August 2013). Design of Cost-effective Experiments presented in the Joint Statistical Meetings of the American Statistical Association (ASA), Section on Risk Analysis, held in Miami, Florida (August 2011). Design of Cost-effective Experiments presented in the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) at the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland (June 2011). Model Lecture on Introduction to Confidence Intervals presented in the Department of Statistics, George Washington University, Washington, District of Columbia (March 2011). Gave a seminar in the Center for Vaccine Development, School of Medicine, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland (November 2007). Presented a paper on Design of Cost-effective Experiments in the Annual Meeting of the Institute of Operations Research and Management Sciences (INFORMS): Cluster of Quality, Statistics, and Reliability, held in Atlanta, Georgia (October 2003). Gave a talk in the Statistical Engineering Division of the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Maryland (October 2002). Gave a seminar in the Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Surveillance, and Epidemiology of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, Georgia (September 2002). Presented a paper on Multivariate Exponentially Weighted Moving Average Control Charts based on the Sign and Signed-Rank Statistics in the International Conference on Current Advances and Trends in Nonparametric Statistics held in Crete, Greece (July 2002). Presented a seminar on Nonparametric MEWMA control charts using small samples in the Seminar Series of the Department of Statistics at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan (November 2000). Presented a seminar on Multivariate nonparametric control charts using small samples in the Seminar Series of the Department of Statistics at George Washington University, Washington, District of Columbia (April 2000).Honors, Awards, and FellowshipsElected member of the Board of Directors, Tanterra Home Owners Association (HOA) which represents 390 households, Brookeville, Maryland (November 9, 2011-present). Appointed representative of the Tanterra Home Owners Association (HOA) at the Greater Olney Civic Association (GOCA), Maryland (December 8, 2010-present). Nominated for a Trachtenberg Prize and a Bender Teaching Award at George Washington University, Washington, District of Columbia (2004). Runner-up Outstanding Presentation Award given by the ASA Section on Physical and Engineering Sciences (SPES) for a talk on Robustness of Multivariate EWMA Control Charts when the Covariance Matrix is estimated using Small Samples presented in the Joint Statistical Meetings held in New York, New York (August 2002). Served as a member of the Judiciary Panel, Graduate Honor System, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia (1993-1995). Elected president of the Hellenic Association at Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia (1994-1995). Elected president of the International Club at the University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia (1987-1988). Selected PublicationsKapatou, A. (August 1, 2018). "People, Ideas Come Together at Risk Analysis Symposium" in AmStat News. (vol. 2018, no. August 2018, Issue #494, pp. 44-45). Alexandria, Virginia: American Statistical Association. http://magazine.amstat.org. Kapatou, A. (2014), Improving Statistical Literacy Through Supplemental Instruction ICOTS9 Proceeding (International Conference on Teaching Statistics). Submitted in December 2013; appeared on September 5, 2014 (on-line) Kapatou, A., and Reynolds, M. R., Jr. (2001), Multivariate Nonparametric EWMA Control Charts Using Small Samples, Technical Report #364, Department of Statistics, University of Michigan. Kapatou, A., and Banks, D. L. (1999), Design of Cost-effective Experiments, 1999 ASA Proceedings - Section on Quality and Productivity. Kapatou, A., and Reynolds, M. R., Jr. (1998), Multivariate Nonparametric Control Charts for the Case of Known S, 1998 ASA Proceedings - Section on Quality and Productivity. Kapatou, A. (1996), Multivariate Nonparametric Control Charts for Short Production Runs, Technical Report Number 96-1, Dept. of Statistics, Virginia Tech. Kapatou, A., and Reynolds, M. R., Jr. (1995), Multivariate Nonparametric Control Charts Using Small Samples, Technical Report Number 95-1, Dept. of Statistics, Virginia Tech. Kapatou, A., and Reynolds, M. R., Jr. (1994), Multivariate Nonparametric Control Charts Using Small Samples, 1994 ASA Proceedings - Section on Quality and Productivity. Professional PresentationsCONTRIBUTED Gave a colloquium titled Improving Statistical Literacy Through Supplemental Instruction in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, American University, Washington DC (April 2014). Design of Cost-effective Experiments presented in the Joint Statistical Meetings held in San Francisco, California (August 2003). Robustness of Multivariate EWMA Control Charts when the Covariance Matrix is estimated using Small Samples presented in the Joint Statistical Meetings held in New York, New York (August 2002). Robustness of Multivariate EWMA Control Charts when the Covariance Matrix is estimated using Small Samples presented in the 2002 Spring Research Conference on Statistics in Industry and Technology held in Ann Arbor, Michigan (May 2002). Presented a paper in the Joint Statistical Meetings held in Atlanta, Georgia (August 2001). 4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20016 (202) 885-1000 Contact Us Visit AU Work at AU Copyright 2020 American University. Emergency Preparedness Policies Privacy Disclosure EEO Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Instagram AU Blogs Homepage
