Profile Whiting Wicker | American University, Washington, DC Skip to main content Show Menu Search Search Website: Go Find People: Go Browse Departments & Services Log in myAU Portal Student GMail Canvas Blackboard Admissions Admissions Home Apply Undergraduate Graduate Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academics Home Degrees Registration Schedule of Classes Study Abroad Summer Programs Online Programs Honors & Learning Communities Schools & Colleges College of Arts & Sciences Kogod School of Business School of Communication School of Education School of International Service School of Professional & Extended Studies School of Public Affairs Washington College of Law Life at AU University Life Home Athletics Housing Dining & Retail New Students Career Services Student Organizations AU Arts Library Calendars Alumni Give to AU Research About Show navigation Profile Whiting Wicker You are here: American University College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Profile Page Back to previous page Teaching Partnerships Activities AU Experts AU News & Achievements Back to top No Profile Picture Whiting Wicker Adjunct Professorial Lecturer Mathematics & Statistics Contact CAS - Math and Statistics Degrees Ph.D., Mathematics Education, AU; M.Phil. (A.B.D.), Mathematics, GWU Bio Wick is anti-racist, culturally sensitive and pro-student. He knows there are no "bad" students: each has something to offer. Wick helped thousands succeed at AU, George Washington University, Montgomery College, Valencia College and United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM). His foci are General Topology, performance measurement, risk analysis and computer simulation. Wick advised Admirals, Generals and Executives when he was a Federal Operations Research Analyst. He also served as Associate Director for the former OPM Office of Training's Quantitative Techniques Curriculum. Wick's hobbies are researching the history and artifacts of the former British colonies in Central and East Africa, and of their ensuing independent Nations. He is ready to assist you. For the Media To request an interview for a news story, call AU Communications at 202-885-5950 or submit a request. AU Experts Teaching Summer 2020 MATH-151 Finite Mathematics STAT-204 Intro to Business Statistics Fall 2020 STAT-202 Basic Statistics STAT-202 Basic Statistics Spring 2021 STAT-202 Basic Statistics 4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20016 (202) 885-1000 Contact Us Visit AU Work at AU Copyright 2020 American University. Emergency Preparedness Policies Privacy Disclosure EEO Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Instagram AU Blogs Homepage
