Faculty Profile: Mary Gray | American University, Washington, DC Skip to main content Show Menu Search Search Website: Go Find People: Go Browse Departments & Services Log in myAU Portal Student GMail Canvas Blackboard Admissions Admissions Home Apply Undergraduate Graduate Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academics Home Degrees Registration Schedule of Classes Study Abroad Summer Programs Online Programs Honors & Learning Communities Schools & Colleges College of Arts & Sciences Kogod School of Business School of Communication School of Education School of International Service School of Professional & Extended Studies School of Public Affairs Washington College of Law Life at AU University Life Home Athletics Housing Dining & Retail New Students Career Services Student Organizations AU Arts Library Calendars Alumni Give to AU Research About Show navigation Faculty Profile: Mary Gray You are here: American University College of Arts & Sciences Faculty Mary Gray Back to previous page Teaching Partnerships Activities AU Experts AU News & Achievements Back to top Mary Gray Distinguished Professor Mathematics & Statistics Contact (202) 885-3171 (Office) (202) 885-3155 (Fax) CAS - Math and Statistics Don Myers Building - 106G Degrees JD, Law, Washington College of Law,American UniversityPhD,Mathematics, University of KansasMA, Mathematics, University of KansasAB, Mathematics and Physics, Hastings College Languages Spoken Some German, French, Spanish Bio A statistician and lawyer, Professor Grays areas of research include applications of statistics to human rights, economic equity, legal issues, and education. She is the founder of the Association for Women in Mathematics, a fellow of the American Statistical Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and is a recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Engineering and Mathematics Mentoring as well as honorary degrees for from three institutions. The author of two books and over eighty articles, she has lectured throughout the United States, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Professor Gray serves as the chair of the Board of Directors of the American Middle East Education and is a member of Statistics without Borders. See Also Math Department Dr Gray's personal page For the Media To request an interview for a news story, call AU Communications at 202-885-5950 or submit a request. AU Experts Teaching Fall 2020 STAT-405 Intro to Survey Sampling STAT-614 Statistical Methods Spring 2021 STAT-614 Statistical Methods Partnerships & Affiliations American Middle East Education Foundation Member Universal Education Foundation Member Association for Women in Mathematics Founder Caucus for Women in Statistics Member American Mathematical Society Member Mathematical Association of America Member American Statistical Association Member Association for Computing Machinery Member American Association of University Professors Member Project on Middle East Democracy Member American Association for the Advancement of Science Member Public Heath Agency of Canada, International Expert Advisory Group on Risk Modeling Member Scholarly, Creative & Professional Activities Research InterestsProfessor Gray has recently completed works on the statistics of genocide and the relation of the provision of sanitation to the education of women and girls.She is currently engaged in studies of learning disabilities in mathematics and womens leadership in mathematical sciences and on projects on human rights and elections in Iraq.Honors, Awards, and Fellowships Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Engineering and Mathematics Mentoring Fellow, American Statistical Association Lifetime Mentoring Award, American Association for the Advancement of Science Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science Honorary doctorate, Mount Holyoke College Honorary doctorate, University of Nebraska Honorary doctorate, Hastings College Fulbright grant, J.W. Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany National Science Foundation Fellowship National Defense Education Act FellowshipCongressional Testimony Income tax reform: U.S. House Ways and Means Committee Affirmative action: U.S. House Special Subcommittee on Education, U.S. Department of Labor Women in science: U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Health and Scientific Research Age discrimination: U.S. Senate Committee on Aging; U.S. Senate Committee on Human Resources, Subcommittee on Labor; U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on Select Education and Civil Rights Social security: U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee, U.S. Senate Finance Committee Pensions, insurance: U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce, U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and Labor, U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources, Maryland House of Delegates, Michigan State Senate, California State Senate, Oregon House, Montana House, Missouri House, U.S. Senate Select Committee on Aging, Oregon Senate, Massachusetts Insurance Commission, Iowa House-Senate Joint Study Committee on Non-gender Insurance, Maine Commission on Women Pay equity: U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Governmental Operations Retirement Income Security: U.S. House of Representative Ways and Means Committee Constitutional Right to Travel: U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on the ConstitutionExecutive Experience Chair, Board of Directors, American Middle East Education Foundation Treasurer, Universal Education Foundation Former treasurer, Amnesty International Former chair, Amnesty International USA Past president Association for Women in Mathematics, Caucus for Women in Statistics, Womens Equity Action LeagueWork In Progress Chapter on women in mathematical sciences for book on womens leadership, Karen OConnor, editor Paper on SAS certification with Monica Jackson and Jun Lu Paper on learning disabilities and mathematics Book review of recent mathematical fiction Selected Publications Mary W. Gray, A Radical Approach to Algebra, Addison Wesley, Reading , Massachusetts , 1970. Mary W. Gray, Calculus with Finite Mathematics for Social Sciences, Addison Wesley, Reading , Massachusetts , 1972. Mary W. Gray, Lies and statistics: A mathematician reflects on moral leadership, in Moral Leadership, edited by Daniel G. Deffenbaugh, Hastings College, Hastings, Nebraska, 2005. Sharon Marek and Mary W. Gray,The statistics of genocide, in Statistical Methods for Human Rights, edited by Jana Asher, David Banks, and Fritz Scheuren, Springer Verlag, New York, 2008. Mary W. Gray,Gender and mathematics: Mythology and Misogyny, in Towards Gender Equity in Mathematics Education, edited by Gila Hanna, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht , 1996. Mary W. Gray, The concept of 'substantial proportionality' in Title IX athletics cases, Duke Journal of Gender and Social Policy 3 (1996), 165-188. Barbara R. Bergmann and Mary W. Gray, Student teaching evaluations: Inaccurate, demeaning, misused, Academe 89 (2003), 44-46. Mary W. Gray, Can statistics tell the courts what they do not want to hear? The case of complex salary structures, Statistical Sciences 8 (1993), 144-179. Mary W. Gray, Iraqi Universities Struggle to Rebuild the House of Knowledge, Academe 90 (September-October 2004), Mary W. Gray, Sophie Germain, in Complexities, edited by Bettye Anne Case and Anne M. Leggett, Princeton University Press, Princeton, 2005.Grants and Sponsored Research National Science Foundation grants for the study of women in science and to attract underrepresented groups to the study of mathematics and computer science Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant for doctorate study for underrepresented minorities Karim Rida Said Foundation grant for Palestinian and Syrian graduate students U.S. Department of State grants for education, election and human rights work in Iraq Patricia Roberts Harris grant for graduate study for underrepresented groupsProfessional Services Expert statistical testimony on sex, race, and age discrimination in courts in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, Maryland, Washington DC, Louisiana, Minnesota, and Texas Consulting with the U.S. State Department in Rwanda and Iraq Extensive volunteer work with Amnesty International Human resources consulting with Legacy Foundation, Ann Arbor schools Statistics consulting with Committee to Protect Journalists Statistical consulting with Kurdistan Regional Government Public Heath Agency of Canada, International Expert Advisory Group on Risk Modeling International summer school on Mathematics of Peace and Development, Crdoba, SpainProfessional Presentations Statistics in Aid of Human Rights, Palestinian Conference on Modern Trends in Mathematics and Physics, Birzeit University, Palestine, July 2008. The Practicalities of Gender Budgeting: Can Secondary Net Enrollment Rates of Girls Rise through Improved Access to Sanitation? Conference on Gender Budgeting, Vilnius, Lithuania, January 2008 (with Eduardas Valaitis). Mentoring, Joint Statistics Meeting, Denver, Colorado, August 2008. The client-consultant relationship in medical research:the role of a professional statistician in the research team, Sydney, Australia, April 2005 (with Nora Donaldson). Using business-style cases in an introductory statistics course, International Congress on the Teaching of Statistics-7, Salvador, Brazil, July 2006 (with Eduardas Valaitis). Statistical tools employed in legal settings, Joint Statistics Meeting 2006, Seattle, Washington, August 2006. Statistics and the law: Will the twain ever meet? Proceedings of Joint Statistics Meeting 2007, Salt Lake City, Utah, August 2007. Mathematics for peace and development, International Congress of Mathematicians, Madrid, August 2006 (organizer and moderator). Teaching an audience of one, Philadelphia chapter of the American Statistical Association, Philadelphia, January 2007. Statistics for human welfare, Mathematics for Peace and Development Summer School, Crdoba, Spain, July 2006. AU Experts Area of Expertise Statistics, ethics, computer science, computer law, mathematics, international and single-sex education, discrimination (esp gender based), academic freedom, reproductive choice, women's voting behavior, economic equity, affirmative action, human rights Additional Information Gray has served as international treasurer of Amnesty International USA. She was responsible for the finances of the 1.2 million-member worldwide organization, in which she has been involved for more than 25 years. As a lawyer and statistician, she furthers her commitment to human rights, including civil rights and womens rights, in researching issues such as affirmative action, discrimination, clinical trials, ethical concerns in statistics, and single-sex education. Gray has also been involved in projects on human rights, statistics capacity building, and education in Iraq. She also has expertise in the areas of math education and computer science and law, and serves as a visiting professor at King's College School of Medicine in London. Gray is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and was a Fulbright Scholar in Germany. She has authored more than 80 articles and has given countless presentations on her areas of specialty, including testifying before Congress on income tax reform, affirmative action, pay equity, and women in science. In 2001, she was the recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring. Gray, a member of the American Bar Association, is writing a book about computer law. For the Media To request an interview for a news story, call AU Communications at 202-885-5950 or submit a request. Related Links AU Media Relations All AU Faculty Experts 4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20016 (202) 885-1000 Contact Us Visit AU Work at AU Copyright 2020 American University. Emergency Preparedness Policies Privacy Disclosure EEO Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Instagram AU Blogs Homepage
