James Marcus, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item James Marcus, Ph.D. Distinguished Lecturer, Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Contact JMarcus@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4879 Maxcy Hall 120C For the Media Email Media Relations About James Dr. James R. Marcus is a highly accomplished technologist known for critical thinking and innovative solutions with a broad range of experience in Fortune 100 companies, consulting, startups, and academia. James attended Tufts University, School of Engineering, where he received his BS, M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering. After graduating, he began a teaching career at The New York Institute of Technology, Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science. During this time, he consulted with Fingermatrix, a digital fingerprint systems company. The lure of industry was great and James left academia. In 1989, Dr. Marcus joined Pitney Bowes. Focusing on requirements engineering and consulting, he worked with internal and external stakeholders gathering and analyzing requirements leading to creative system improvements and innovations to further market and corporate needs. It was at Pitney Bowes where James interest in information security, cryptography, and their practical applications began - an expertise he would use throughout his career. He led small teams developing prototypes for systems that produce non-forgeable electronic and printed documents. James received US Patent #5,864,622 and #5,384,846 for this and associated work. Dr. Marcus has defended this intellectual property in patent infringement lawsuits multiple times. In 1993, James joined Verizon. There, he managed an RFP process and oversaw the implementation of an outsourced, private labeled Internet dial service. As part of the technical staff, he worked with customers and industry groups applying his security expertise to new system opportunities. This culminated in a secure web authentication and access control system based on the Public Key Infrastructure that was commercially available for over 3 years. Capitalizing on the growth of the Internet and other industry trends, James started consulting companies Crosshair Communications Corporation in 1997 and Crossfire Consulting Corporation in 2000. Crosshair provided business, technology, and security services to such clients as the FCC, Lockheed Martin, Scitor, Pitney Bowes, and Verizon. Crossfire provides software development services on a project basis and for staff augmentation. In 2004, James launched Courtyard Consulting Inc. to pursue smaller projects of personal interest. He has worked with Jeff Pulver as the director of technology commercializing a voice on the Internet service and as the CTO of Network2.tv, a startup specializing in Internet video aggregation. With a local software development company, he managed the redevelopment of The Best Life diet and exercise site. James has worked with a number of small organizations advising them on their Internet and communications strategies, as well as with a discount power company performing a security review of their customer registration process. Recently, James created and taught two training classes in mobile application development. He works with venture capitalists as a technology analyst, reviewing merger, acquisition, and capital raise opportunities. He has spent a considerable amount of time researching predictive analytics technologies and their application. James attributes much of his success to a commitment to continuous learning. He plays the saxophone, flute, and clarinet on a semi-professional basis. He is an avid runner and a beginner golfer. He currently lives in Connecticut with his wife and two daughters. See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Electrical Engineering, B.S. Computer Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, M.S. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
