Kagya Amoako, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Kagya Amoako, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Biomedical Engineering Graduate Coordinator, Biomedical Engineering Director, Biomaterials and Medical Device Innovation Laboratory Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Contact KAmoako@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4877 Working Remotely Personal Pages Dr. Amoako's Research Program For the Media Email Media Relations Education Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Biomaterials, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI, and University of Washington, Seattle WA Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI M.S.E in Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI B.S. in Physics and Mathematics, Delaware State University, Dover DE About Kagya Kagya Amoako is an expert in device-related infection and cardiovascular and lung assisted medical devices. His research focuses on understanding the mechanisms of artificial materials and blood interaction. In a key finding, he and his team discovered that polymer-bound nitric oxide can inhibit the growth of bacteria and, at the same time, does not damage the viability of surrounding cells. His work focuses on how to stop the spread of infections associated with implanted medical devices including catheters, pacemakers, stents, vascular grafts, heart valves, artificial lungs, artificial kidneys, and glucose sensors. With over 200 million implantable devices used in patients in the U.S. alone, and about a four percent infection rate, Dr. Amoakos research could impact more than eight million people each year who have device-related infections, improving patient health and reducing hospitalization time and healthcare costs. As the director of the University of New Havens Biomaterials and Medical Device Innovation Laboratory, Dr. Amoako leads teams of graduate students developing new biocompatible surfaces and medical device prototypes and conducting device biocompatibility tests to determine how well the devices would work in clinical practice. His ultimate research goal is to develop the next generation of medical devices that will provide long-term support for cardiovascular and pulmonary disease patients. In 2017, he published "Achieving Totally Local Anticoagulation on Blood Contacting Devices" in Advanced Materials Interfaces, which examined the challenges of biomaterial surface interaction with blood, biomaterial properties and their influence on coagulation, and old and new surface anticoagulation methods. His wide-ranging research work includes the development of polymer materials that can be used in the living spaces in spaceships. With support from the NASA Connecticut Space Grant Consortium, Dr. Amoako is developing new surfaces that stop the growth of bacteria in the areas astronauts use daily in space. He and a student researcher are also developing a prototype of a low-cost prosthetic arm for the more than 2.4 million below-the-elbow amputees who live in developing countries and cant afford a prosthetic arm. Dr. Amoako is director of the University of New Havens masters degree in biomedical engineering, which includes students from the U.S., China, Nigeria, India, Turkey, Iran, and Myanmar. He received his B.S. in physics and mathematics from Delaware State, and his M.S.E. in mechanical engineering and his Ph.D. in biomedical engineering from the University of Michigan. See More See Less Selected Peer Reviewed Publications Surbhi Gupta, KAAmoako, Ahmed Suhaib, Keith E. Cook. Multi-modal, surface focused anticoagulation using poly-2-methoxyethylacrylate polymer grafts and surface nitric oxide release. Advanced Material Interfaces. 2014, doi: 10.1002/admi.201400012 Harihara Sandaram, Xia Han, Ann K. Nowinski, Norman D. Brault, Yuting Li, Jean-Rene Ella- Menye, KAAmoako, Keith E. Cook, Patrick Marek, Kris Senecal, and Shaoyi Jiang. Achieving One-step Surface Coating of Highly Hydrophilic Poly(Carboxybetaine Methacrylate) Polymers on Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Surfaces. Advanced Materials Interfaces. 2014, doi: 10.1002/admi.201400071 Hitesh Handa, Elizabeth J. Brisbois, Terry C. Major, Lahdan Refahiyat, KAAmoako, Robert H. Bartlett and Mark E. Meyerhof. Hemocompatibility comparison of biomedical grade polymers using rabbit thrombogenicity model for preparing nonthrombogenic nitric oxide releasing surfaces. Journal of materials chemistry. B, Materials for biology and medicine. 2014, 2(8): 1059-1067 Hitesh Handa, Elizabeth J. Brisbois, Terry C. Major, Lahdan Refahiyat, KAAmoako, Gail M. Annich, Robert H. Bartlett and Mark E. Meyerhof. In vitro and in vivo study of sustained nitric oxide release coating using diazeniumdiolate-doped poly(vinyl chloride) matrix with poly(lactide- co-glycolide) additive. Journal of materials chemistry. B, Materials for biology and medicine. 2013,1(29): 3578-3587 KA Amoako, Montoya JP, Major TC, Meyerhof ME, Bartlett RH, Cook KE. Fabrication and In vivo Thrombogenecity Testing of Nitric Oxide Generating Artificial Lungs. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2013, 101(12): 3511-3519 KA Amoako, Archangeli C, Major TC, Meyerhoff ME, Annich GM, Bartlett RH. Thromboresistance Characterization of Extruded Nitric Oxide Releasing Silicone Catheters ASAIO Journal2012; 58: 238 -246 Major TC, Brant DO, Burney CP, KAAmoako, Annich GM, Meyerhoff ME, Handa H, and Bartlett RH. The hemocompatibility of a nitric oxide generating polymer that catalyzes S-nitrosothiol decomposition in an extracorporeal circulation model. Biomaterials2011; 32: 5957e5969 KA Amoako, Cook KE. Nitric oxide-generating silicone as a blood-contacting biomaterial. ASAIO Journal2011; 57:539544 D. Pokrajac, KAAmoako, Patel H, Brooks J, Cenat N, Marcus K, Darden S. Data Mining in Geosciences. TELSIKS 2003; 534-537 Teaching Interests Dr. Amoakos teaching interests are in Biomaterials and Design and Application of Biomaterials in Medicine. His teaching philosophy include providing the connection between learning material and the "big picture", treating students with respect, diversifying teaching methods to accommodate both visual and auditory learners, using assessment tools to evaluate teaching methods, and having plans for growth as an educator. Research Interests Dr. Amoakos research focuses on bio-inspired polymer surface and bulk modification to incorporate anti-clotting functions of the endothelium on biomaterials. His research goal is to address cardiovascular diseases through medical device development. He has worked on medical device fabrication, surface modification, and in vivo testing. Examples of blood contacting devices that he has studied, using animal test models, include artificial lungs and catheters. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Biomaterials & Medical Device Innovation Laboratory (BMD iLab) News and In the Media Reuters Health: HIV infection may impact sensitivity of rapid diagnostic tests for HCV Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, comments on how the conclusion of these findings may be important to false-negative testing in COVID-19 patients. Read more Travel Weekly: 'Important step' or 'gimmick'? No consensus on seat blocking Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, comments on the importance of wearing a face mask and separating passengers on airlines are meaningful steps to slow the spread of coronavirus. Read more Connecticut Post: CT health experts: No truth to killer coronavirus mask theory Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, comments on the easy fix to a mask that may impede breathing. Read more Connecticut Post: Snapshots of a day in CT that was 'so 2020 it's scary' Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, is part of a snapshots of a day in CT feature. Read more Connecticut Post: Experts: Steroid helps reduce coronavirus deaths Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, comments on the effectiveness of steroids in treating COVID-19. Read more The Pitt News: Pitt, CMU engineers team up on low-cost Roboventilator Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, comments on his research for an artificial lung device amid the ventilator shortage. Read more iHeart Radio: Community Interview with Renee Kagya Amoako, assistant professor of biomedical engineering, discusses approval for a connector that splits the use of a ventilator made with a 3-D printer he and his students designed. Read more CCIC The Independent: University of New Haven professor applies for FDA approval for a ventilator connector made with a 3-D printer Kagya Amoako, assistant professor, Biomedical Engineering, discusses a splitter he designed for ventilators during the pandemic shortage. Read more Republican American: Hospitals need ventilators. But the raw materials needed to make them are scarce. Kagya Amoako, assistant professor, Biomedical Engineering, discusses a splitter he designed and is awaiting FDA Emergency approval to be deployed. Read more Universitys Biomedical Engineering Program Working to Address Potential Medical Equipment Shortages During Coronavirus Outbreak Dr. Kagya Amoako and his students are using 3D-printing technology to develop innovative solutions for the possible lack of critical equipment healthcare providers need to treat patients impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic. Read more University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
