Agamemnon Koutsospyros, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Agamemnon Koutsospyros, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus Tagliatela College of Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Department Contact AKoutsospyros@newhaven.edu For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. Civil and Environmental Engineering, Polytechnic University, Brooklyn, NY. M.S.C.E., Civil and Environmental Engineering, Polytechnic University, Brooklyn, NY. Diploma, Chemical Engineering, National Technical University Of Athens, Greece. Published Books and Articles P. Karakaya C. Christodoulatos, A. Koutsospyros, W. Balas, S. Nicolich and M. Sidhoum, Biodegradation of the High Explosive Hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane (CL-20), Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health, , 6, 1371-1392; 2009 N. Xu, C. Christodoulatos, A. Koutsospyros and W. Braida, Competitive Sorption of Tungstate, Molybdate and Phosphate Mixtures onto Goethite, Land Contamination & Reclamation, 17 (1), 46-57, 2009 A. Ogundipe, W. Braida, C. Christodoulatos, A. Koutsospyros and G. O'Connor, Effect of Other Metals on the Dissolution of Tungsten, Land Contamination & Reclamation, 17 (1), 101-110, 2009 N. Strigul, A. Koutsospyros and C. Christodoulatos, Tungsten in the Former Soviet Union: Review of Environmental Regulations and Related Research, Land Contamination & Reclamation, 17 (1), 189-215, 2009 Wazne M, Jagupilla SC, Moon DH, Christodoulatos C, Koutsospyros A., Leaching Mechanisms of Cr(VI) from Chromite Ore Processing Residue, J Environ Qual.,,37(6):2125-34, 2008 Moon DH, Wazne M, Koutsospyros A, Christodoulatos C, Gevgilili H, Malik M, Kalyon DM., Evaluation of the Treatment of Chromite Ore Processing Residue by Ferrous Sulfate and Asphalt, Journal of Hazardous Materials,166(1):27-32, 2009. A. Ogundipe, J. Pavlov, W. Braida, A. Koutsospyros, G. Sen, C. Christodoulatos, G. O'Connor, Evaluation Of Analytical Methods to Address Tungsten Speciation. Global Network for Environmental Science and Technology, Vol 11, No 3, pp 308-317, 2009 O. Mozgina, A. Koutsospyros, S. Gershman, A. Belkind, C. Christodoulatos, and K. H. Becker, Decomposition of Energetic Materials by Pulsed Electrical Discharges in Gas-Bubbled Aqueous Solutions, (2009) IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science, Vol. 37 (6), 905-910. Koutsospyros A. D."Addressing Speciation of Tungsten in Environmental Samples", Proceedings of Protection and Restoration IX, Kefalonia Greece, 29 June - 3 July, 2008. Courses Taught CE 315 Environmental Engineering and Sanitation CE 328 Hydraulics & Environmental Laboratory CE 404 Sanitary Engineering CE 601 Physical-Chemical Treatment of Aqueous Wastes CE 602 Biological Treatment of Aqueous Wastes CE 603 Contaminant Fate and Transport CE 605 Solid Waste Management CE 612 Advanced Wastewater Treatment CE 617 Wastewater Residuals Management CE 618 Hazardous Waste Treatment CE 690 Master Project See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Civil Engineering, B.S. Environmental Science, B.S. Civil Engineering, M.S. Environmental Engineering, M.S. In the Media The Stute: Stevens researchers grow a greener future Dr. Agamemnon Koutsospyros, isparticipatingin the researchthat is examining how algae plants can helpgenerate renewable biofuel. Public Now: The Greener Fuels of the Future May Start With This Green Algae Dr. Agamemnon Koutsospyros, professor at the University of New Haven, comments on his participation in the research of oil- rich microalgae as a way to generate biofuel. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
