Ravi Gorthala, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Ravi Gorthala, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Mechanical Engineering Chair, Dept. of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering> Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact RGorthala@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4119 Echlin 104 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Engineering Science (Mechanical Engineering), University of Mississippi M.S., Engineering Science (Mechanical Engineering), University of Mississippi B.E., Mechanical Engineering, Regional Engineering College, Trichy, University of Madras, India About Ravi Dr. Gorthala joins the University of New Haven with over 20 years of industry experience having received funding from DOE, DOD, NASA, NIST, ASHRAE, Long Island Power Authority, Electric Power Research Institute and New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. While his research and development interests are diversified (energy, building technologies and polymer composites), his focus is on renewable energy technologies. He has a passion for hands-on K-12 STEM education. Awards and Honors Best Processing Paper Award - Composites Institute, the Society of Plastics Industry (1993)Ground Breakers 2000 Award by Builder Magazine/ Popular Science Award for Fiber-Optic Daylighting Patents Concept for advanced pultrusion technology to manufacture polymeric composite materials (U.S. Patent No. 6,007,655) Three dimensional advertising display (U.S. Patent No. 6,189,246) (Additional patents being filed) Fiber-optic daylighting system (U.S. Patent No. 6,299,317) Energy saving residential thermostat (U.S. Patent No. 6,478,084) HSTAT, a device for HVAC health status and control (patent filed) Non-intrusive duct-lining technology (dubbed duct angioplasty) (patent being filed) See More See Less Selected Publications Gorthala, R., "Polymer Composites: Construction Industry Applications," The Construction Specifier, May 2000. Gorthala, R., "Thermal Performance of Cold-Formed Steel Ceiling/Roof Framing Assemblies", Final Report Submitted to ASHRAE, December 1998. Flynn, D.R. and Gorthala, R. "Thermal Design of a Miniature Guarded Hot Plate Apparatus," Insulation Materials and Applications: Third Volume , ASTM STP 1320, American Society for Testing and Materials, 1997, pp. 337-354. Flynn, D.R. and Gorthala, R. "Radiation Scattering Versus Radiation Absorption - Effects on Performance of Thermal Insulation Under Non-Steady State Conditions," Insulation Materials and Applications: Third Volume , ASTM STP 1320, American Society for Testing and Materials, 1997, pp. 366-380. Gorthala, R., "Untapped Potential of CO 2 for HVAC Vapor Compression Systems," Final Report Prepared for the Electric Power Research Institute, May 1996. Gorthala, R., "Testing and Evaluation of Clamp-on Ultrasonic Flowmeters for the Measurement of Residential Hot Water Flow," Research Project 3269-22, Draft Report Prepared for the Electric Power Research Institute, January 1994. Gorthala, R., Stoltz, S., and Hagen, E., "Testing and Evaluation of Line-Voltage Thermostats," Research Project 3512-5, Final Report Prepared for the Electric Power Research Institute, December 1993. Buruss, R., and Gorthala, R., "End-Use Metering of Heat Pumps: Effects of Airflow Reduction on Heat Pump Performance," GEOMET Report No. IE-2658, Prepared for PEPCO, September 1993. Gorthala, R., Roux, J.A., and Vaughan, J.G., "Resin Flow, Cure and Heat Transfer Analysis for Pultrusion Process," J. Composite Materials , Vol. 28, No. 6, pp. 486-506, 1994. Gorthala, R., Roux, J.A., and Vaughan, J.G., "A Model to Predict Resin Pressure/Back Flow for the Tapered Inlet of a Pultrusion Die," J. Reinforced Plastics and Composites , March 1994. Gorthala, R., Roux, J.A., and Vaughan, J.G., "Comparison of Graphite/Epoxy with Fiberglass/Epoxy: A Heat Transfer Analysis,"J. Reinforced Plastics and Composites , March 1994. Gorthala, R., Harris, K.T., Roux, J.A. and McCarty, T.A., "A transient one dimensional model to predict heat transfer coupled with moisture transport in residential attic insulations," J. Thermophysics and Heat Transfer , Vol. 8, No. 1, 1994, pp. 125-132. Courses Taught ME 361Introduction to Renewable Energy Systems ME 404Heat Transfer ME 411Thermal-Fluid Design See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
