Eric Dieckman, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Eric Dieckman, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact EDieckman@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4249 St. Paul's For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Applied Science, The College of William and Mary M.S., Architectural Acoustics, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute B.S., Physics, Truman State University About Eric Dr. Dieckman has a background in acoustic modeling, signal processing, and machine learning with a degree concentration in Nondestructive Evaluation. He is the author or co-author on more than 30 conference presentations, reports, and patent applications, covering a wide range of topics. Results from his work have been presented across the United States and in Mexico, Canada, France, and Spain. Recent projects include development of an ultrasonic system to detect counterfeit microelectronic components, design of an acoustic method to benignly exclude pest birds from a geographic area, and numerical simulations of acoustic scattering. As part of his dissertation research, Dr. Dieckman investigated a number of sensor modalities for mobile robotics applications, including passive thermal infrared, active near-infrared depth-mapping, a coffee-can radar, and echolocation using an acoustic parametric array. This work identified a new low-cost, long-range acoustic echolocation sensor which, coupled with advanced signal processing and machine learning algorithms, allows the automated detection and classification of oncoming vehicles at distances exceeding 50 m. Dr. Dieckman is a co-founder of the Wavelet Signal Processing and Nondestructive Evaluation Systems Testing (WaSP-NEST) Lab at the Sonalysts Waterford campus, where he is directing the exploration of new methods of ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation of complex structures using advanced signal processing and machine learning approaches. Recent projects include guided wave ultrasonic inspection of thermal-spray coatings for ship structures, Pareto optimization of UUV operations, data mining of sonar operator performance metrics, and physical modeling of satellite motion for software training systems. See More See Less Selected Publications and Presentations Automated classification of oncoming ground vehicles using acoustic echolocation and supervised machine learning (with M. Hinders), Invited for The 167th Meeting of the Acoustical Society of America, Providence, RI, 6 May 2014 Benign exclusion of birds using acoustic parametric arrays (with E. Skinner, G. Mahjoub, J. Swaddle, and M. Hinders), The 165th Meeting of the Acoustical Society of America and 21st International Congress on Acoustics, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, 6 June 2013 Acoustic echolocation for mobile robots with parametric arrays (with M.Hinders), Invited for the Acoustical Society of Americas World-Wide Press Room at the 164th Meeting in Kansas City, MO 22-26 October 2012 High-frequency contact ultrasound for subsurface characterization of microelectronics (with M. Hinders and J. Stevens), The 19th Annual Research Symposium and Spring Meeting of the American Society of Nondestructive Testing, Williamsburg, VA, 23 March 2010 Porous material parameter estimation: A Bayesian approach (with C. Fackler and N. Xiang), Proceedings of MaxEnt 2011 31st International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, Waterloo, Canada, 10-15 July 2011 Spatially enveloping reverberation in sound fixing, processing, and room-acoustic simulations using coded sequences (with N. Xiang and U. Trivedi), U.S. Patent Application #12/615,655, Filed 10 Nov 2009 See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
