Michael Saliby, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Michael Saliby, Ph.D. Professor, Chemistry Chair of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact MSaliby@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7169 1124 Campbell Ave., 103 For the Media Email Media Relations Education B.S.,Chemistry,Union College, 1975 Ph. D., Inorganic Chemistry, SUNY at Binghamton, 1980 About Michael Dr. Saliby joined the faculty of the University of New Haven in September of 1980 as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry. He has served as department chair several times during his tenure at the University of New Haven, most recently from September 2003 to August 2006. During his 30+ years at the University of New Haven, he has also served as the Undergraduate Chemistry Coordinator, including since September 2009. He also currently serves as the Analytical Chemistry Lab Coordinator. Prior to coming to the University of New Haven, Dr. Saliby taught at Kenyon College. Dr. Salibys research interests lie in the areas of synthesis and characterization of transition metal compounds, including their thermal and photochemical reactions. He is a member of the American Chemical Society, including the local New Haven section and the divisions of Inorganic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, and Chemical Education. Personal interests include. See More See Less Published Books and Articles Experimental General Chemistry, 2nd ed., M. J. Saliby, P. J. Desio, and G. L. Wheeler, University of New Haven Press, West Haven, CT, 1988. Photo- and Thermochemistry of cis-[Cr(en)2F2]+ and cis-[Cr(en)2F(H2O)]2+ in Acidic Aqueous Solution, B. Herbert, D. Reinhard, M. J. Saliby, and P. S. Sheridan, Inorg. Chem., 1987, 26, 4024-29.Base Hydrolysis, Chloride Anation, and Synthesis of Some Rhodium(III) Complexes of , ', ''-Triaminotriethylamine: Evidence for Chemically Nonequivalent Coordination Sites in the Rh(tren)XY Cation, M. J. Saliby, E. B. Kaplan, P. S. Sheridan, and S. K. Madan, Inorg. Chem., 1981, 20, 728. Recent Presentations "The Worksheet Demystified", Academic Advisement Workshop, University of New Haven, October 2009 Current University and College Committees Member, University Undergraduate Curriculum Committee Member, University Graduate Curriculum Committee Member, University Tenure and Promotion Committee Member, Tagliatela College of Engineering Academic and Student Affair Committee Recent Professional Activities and Awards University of New Haven Award for Excellence in Student Advising, May 2009 Courses Taught CH 521 Advanced Inorganic Chemistry CH 221 Instrumental Methods of Analysis with Lab CH 211 Quantitative Methods of Analysis with Lab CH 115 General Chemistry I CH 116 General Chemistry II CH 411 Chemical Literature See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemical Engineering, B.S. Chemistry, M.S. Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
