Ali Golbazi, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Ali Golbazi, Ph.D. Professor/Chair, Undergraduate Coordinator Electrical Engineering & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact AGolbazi@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7162 Maxcy Hall 120E For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D.: Electrical Engineering , Wayne State University About Ali Dr. Ali Golbazi is currently the chair of the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science at the University of New Haven. He teaches in the electrical engineering program both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Prior to joining the University of New Haven, in 1986 Dr. Golbazi was a lecturer at George Washington University. He is a member of the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). Dr. Golbazi' s academic and research interests are in fiber optics, optical sensors, and electronics. Dr. Golbazi serves as the Director of Project Lead The Way (PLTW) at the University of New Haven. PLTW is the leading STEM curriculum for middle and high schools in Connecticut and the nation. Published Books and Articles "A Pilot Program in Internet-of-things with University and Industry Collaboration: Introduction and Lessons Learned" 2018 ASEE Annual Conference and Exhibition. M. A. Golbazi, B. Karimi, A. Lizotte. "A Partnership in Engineering Education: A K-12 Initiative" , Proceedings of the ASE New England Section 2005 Annual Conference. March 2005. "A pre-biased micro bending optical sensor", International Symposium on Optical Science, Engineering , and Instrumentation, Denver, Colorado. August 8, 1996. Journal of International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE), vol. 2839 pp. 426-433. "A Hybrid Fiber Optic temperature sensor based on internal effect principle "International Symposium on optical engineering and Photonics in Aerospace Science and sensing, Orlando, Florida, April 14, 1993. Journal of International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE), vol. 1952 pp. 245-255. "Light Guides", Contribution to a chapter in Magill's Survey of Science, Salem Press. Nov. 1991, pp.1517-1524. Courses Taught EE 680 Fiber Optic Communications EE 461 Electromagnetic Theory EE 235 Analog Circuits EE 247 Electronics I EE 257 Analog Circuits Laboratory EE 348 Electronics II EE 349 Electronics Design Laboratory EE 155 Digital Systems I EE 480 Fiber Optic Communications EAS230Fundamentals & Applications of Analog Devices See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Computer Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, B.S. Electrical Engineering, M.S. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
