Ronald S. Harichandran, Ph.D., P.E., F.ASCE - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Ronald S. Harichandran, Ph.D., P.E., F.ASCE Dean / Vice Provost for Research Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact RHarichandran@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7167 Echlin 101 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Civil Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology M.S. in Civil Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology B.E. in Civil Engineering, University of Canterbury, New Zealand Licensed Professional Engineer, Michigan About Ronald Ron Harichandran was appointed Dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering at the University of New Haven in August 2011. Prior to that he was a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Michigan State University (MSU) and served as the department chair from 1995-2011. Dr. Harichandrans technical specialty is structural engineering, he has performed research on earthquake, pavement, bridge and fire engineering, and he has published over 100 journal and conference proceedings papers and technical reports. He has mentored 12 Ph.D. students and 6 M.S. thesis students. He has taught a broad range of courses in structural analysis, design, dynamics, and probabilistic methods. He was elected a Fellowof the American Society of Civil Engineers in 2005, and inducted into the Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering in 2014. As an administrator, Dr. Harichandran has fostered the growth of research, teaching, outreach and international programs. As Dean at the University of New Haven he is working to strengthen academic programs, research and scholarship. He initiated the development of academic focus areas in renewable energy, sustainability, wireless communications and digital forensics that cut across multiple programs. He serves as the PI on two grants that have resulted in curricular innovations in all engineering and computer science programs: (1) the Project to Integrate Technical Communication Habitsfunded by the David Educational Foundation; and (2) Developing Entrepreneurial Thinking in Engineering Students by Utilizing Integrated Online Modules and Experiential Learning Opportunities funded by the Kern Family Foundation. He served on the leadership team to launch the M.S. in Data Science program in San Francisco in partnership with Galvanize, a new M.S. in Biomedical Engineering program, and a fully online M.S. in Environmental Engineering program. He initiated the first Senior Design Expo in May 2012 to showcase senior design projects in all programs, and established a coordinated senior design course schedule beginning in Fall 2012 to facilitate interdisciplinary projects. His other accomplishments include: fundraising in support of academic programs; development of a strategic plan for the college; accreditation of eight BS programs (six in engineering, one in computer science and one in chemistry); development of engineering study abroad programs at the University of New Haven campus in Prato, Italy; establishment of an Entrepreneurial Engineering Living Learning Community for First-Year students; and coordination of programs with the grade 6-12 New Haven Engineering and Science University Magnet School. As a department chair at Michigan State University he engaged in fundraising and helped design and construct laboratory facilities, including the 12,200 sq. ft. Civil Infrastructure Laboratory and Structural Fire Testing Facility at MSU. He guided successful ABET accreditation of the MSU civil engineering undergraduate program in 1998, 2004 and 2010, and helped establish a B.S. program in environmental Engineering in 2011. He helped establish and conduct successful study-abroad programs with partner institutions in Russia and Turkey. He interacted with private, government, legislative, and university personnel to establish the National Center for Pavement Preservation at MSU in 2003. He also helped establish the Michigan Transportation Research Board in 2005 and served as its inaugural chair. (Click here for Dr. Harichandran's full curriculum vitae.) Awards and Honors Member, Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering, 2014. Withrow Exceptional Service Award, College of Engineering, Michigan State University, 2011. Executive Leadership Academy, Michigan State University, 2009-10. ASCE Department Heads Council Executive Committee, chair (2008-10), secretary (2006-08), member (2003-10). Fellow, American Society of Civil Engineers, 2005. ASCE Body of Knowledge II Committee, 2005-07. Michigan Transportation Research Board, Founding chair, 2005-10. CIC Academic Leadership Fellow, Michigan State University, 1996-97. Teacher-Scholar Award, Michigan State University, 1992. See More See Less Selected Publications Nossoni, G., Harichandran, R. S. (in press). "Electrochemical-mechanistic model for concrete cover cracking due to corrosion initiated by chloride diffusion." Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering , ASCE . Tarinejad, R., Ahmadi, M. T., and Harichandran, R. S. (2014). "Full-scale experimental modal analysis of an arch dam: the first experience in Iran." Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering, 61-62, 188-196. Tarinejad, R., Fatehi, R., and Harichandran, R. S. (2013). "Response of an arch dam to non-uniform excitation generated by a seismic wave scattering model."Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering, 52, 40-54. Nossoni, G., Harichandran, R. S. (2012). "Current efficiency in accelerated corrosion testing of concrete." Corrosion, 68(9), 801-809. Gong, A., and Harichandran, R. S. (2012). "Wood-cement particleboard: impact behavior and potential application in crash barriers." Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering, ASCE, 24(1), 134-140. Zhang, G., Harichandran, R.S., and Ramuhalli, P. (2011). "Application of noise cancelling and damage detection algorithms in NDE of concrete bridge decks using impact signals." Journal of Nondestructuve Evaluation, 30(4), 259-274. Iqbal, S., and Harichandran, R.S. (2010). "Capacity reduction and fire load factors for LRFD of steel members exposed to fire." Journal of Structural Engineering, ASCE, 136(12), 1554-1562. Hong, S., and Harichandran, R. S. (2005). "Sensors to monitor CFRP/concrete bond in beams using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy." Journal of Composites for Construction, ASCE, 9(6), 515-523. Chen, M.-T., and Harichandran, R. S. (2001). "Response of an earth dam to spatially varying earthquake ground motion." Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, 127(9), 932-939. Harichandran, R. S., Mahmood, T., Raab, A., and Baladi, G. Y. (1993). "A modified Newton algorithm for backcalculation of pavement layer properties." Transportation Research Record, 1384, 15-22. Harichandran, R. S., Yeh, M-S., and Baladi, G. Y. (1990). "MICH-PAVE: a nonlinear finite element program for the analysis of flexible pavements." Transportation Research Record, 1286, 123-131. Harichandran, R. S., and Vanmarcke, E. (1986). "Stochastic variation of earthquake ground motion in space and time." Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, 112(2), 154-174, and 113(8), 1271-1273. Recent Grants Davis Educational Foundation, "Project to integrate technical communication habits," with co-PIs Michael Collura, Jean Nocito-Gobel, John Saris and Amir Esmailpour, July 2012-July 2015. Kern Family Foundation, "Developing entrepreneurial thinking in engineering students by utilizing integrated online modules and experiential learning opportunities, with co-Pls: Maria-Isabel Carnasciali, Jean Nocito-Gobel, Nadiye Erdil and Cheryl Li. Feb. 2015-Aug. 2018. Kern Family Foundation, "Developing entrepreneurial thinking in engineering students by utilizing integrated online modules and a leadership cohort, with co-Pls: Maria-Isabel Carnasciali and Jean Nocito-Gobel. June2014-May 2015. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Civil Engineering, B.S. Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering News and In the Media In the Media Fox 61: Eyes on the sky during Lockheed Martin job recruitment at University of New Haven Ron Harichandran, dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering along with students discuss Lockheed Martin Day and the helicopter landing. Research The Charger Blog Guiding the University of New Haven to New Heights as a National Research Leader Ronald Harichandran, the Universitys vice provost for research, says he is excited to be part of an expanded vision for research at the University because he believes research transforms learning, emboldens teaching, and gives graduates a decided edge in the job market and in careers across countless industries. Ronald S. Harichandran University News University of New Haven Appoints Leading Scholar as Vice Provost for Research Ronald S. Harichandran, Ph.D., P.E., F.ASCE, who joined the University in 2011 as dean of the Tagliatela College of Engineering, is the first person to hold this position. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
