Moin Bhuiyan, Ph.D., P.Eng(ON, Canada) - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Moin Bhuiyan, Ph.D., P.Eng(ON, Canada) Visiting Assistant Professor Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact MBhuiyan@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4718 Maxcy Hall 120D For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering University of Windsor, Windsor, Canada M.A. Sc. in Electrical and Computer Engineering Ryerson University, Toronto, Canada B.Sc. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Chittagong University of Engineering and Technology (CUET), Chittagong, Bangladesh About Moin Dr. Moin Bhuiyan is currently a Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of New Haven in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science. His research interests include Smart Prosthetics, Digital systems, Wearable Sensors, Biomedical signals and image processing, and Machine learning algorithms: Theory and Application. In the past, he has served as an Assistant Teaching Professor at Worcester Polytechnic Institute and as a Contract Lecturer at Ryerson University. At WPI, he worked on a myoelectric hand-wrist prosthesis, which involved research in algorithms, EMG signals, and machine learning. He also developed a 16 channel analog front end for EMG signal processing at WPI. He also worked as a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Institute for Diagnostic Imaging Research located at MaRS Discovery District, Toronto, ON, Canada. There, he continued his Ph.D. research for developing Portable Pulmonary Injuries Diagnostic device (PPIDD) meant to make a diagnosis of Pneumothorax on the spot. Current Courses (Spring 2020) VLSI design Wireless Networks Networking I Analog Circuits Courses Taught Advanced Systems Architecture Biomedical Systems Modeling Digital Systems Electronics II Electronics Design Laboratory Intelligence systems/machine learning Networking II Power Electronics Radiation Therapy Devices Selected Publications Moinuddin Bhuiyan, Eugene V. Malyarenko, Mircea A. Pantea, Dante Capaldi, Alfred E. Baylor, and Roman Gr. Maev, "Time-Frequency Analysis of Clinical Percussion Signals Using Matrix Pencil Method," Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering, vol. 2015, Article ID 274541, 10, pages, 2015. doi:10.1155/2015/274541 Bhuiyan M, Malyarenko, E.V.; Pantea, M.A.;Seviaryn, F.M., Maev, R.G. "Advantages and limitations of using Matrix Pencil Method for the modal analysis of medical percussion signals" IEEE Biomedical Engineering,Feb2013, Vol.60(2):Pages417-26. Bhuiyan M, Malyarenko EV, Pantea M A, Maev R G, Baylor A E. "Estimating the parameters of audible clinical percussion signals by fitting exponentially damped harmonics" Journal of coustical Society of America (JASA), Journal of Acoustical Society of America, Jun2012, Vol.131(6):4690-8. doi: 10.1121/1.4712018. Bhuiyan M, Malyrenko E, Pantea M and Roman Maev "Time-frequency analysis of multi-component, non-stationary signals using matrix pencil method" 11th International Conference of Upcoming Engineers 2012 (ICUE12), Sponsored by IEEE Toronto Chapter Ryerson University, Toronto, ON, Canada. M.Bhuiyan, and M. Jaseemuddin, "Congestion-Aware Overlay Networks, Proceedings of the 64th IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference Fall 2006 (VTC), Sept. 25-28, 2006 Montreal, Canada. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Cybersecurity and Networks, B.S. Computer Science, B.S. Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. Computer Science, M.S. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
