Liberty Page, M.S. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Liberty Page, M.S. Lecturer Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact LPage@newhaven.edu (203) 932-1037 Maxcy Hall 120F For the Media Email Media Relations Education Secondary Science Teacher Certification (Graduate Program) in Chemistry and General Science, Southern Connecticut State M.S. in Computer Science, University of New Haven B.A. in Chemistry and Psychology, University of Connecticut About Liberty Liberty Page 91 M.S. is an authority on developing and implementing cybersecurity, robotics, and STEM programs for middle and high school students. She works to encourage students to explore the field of cybersecurity, where, she says, there is a significant shortfall of talented, trained people and where there is strong, sustained job growth. Coordinator of the Universitys B.S. program in cybersecurity and networks, Professor Page is a co-principal investigator and lead instructor of the Universitys GenCyber Agent Academy, the only free summer camp of its kind in Connecticut that encourages young women and individuals from underrepresented populations to explore opportunities in the field of cybersecurity. It is supported by the National Security Agency and National Science Foundation. She also is a co-principal investigator on the Universitys $4 million grant from the National Science Foundation to establish Connecticuts first CyberCorps Scholarship for Service program to prepare students to work with federal, state, or local government organizations to prevent cyberattacks. The award is one of the largest federal grants in the Universitys history. Professor Page, who as part of the CyberCorps Scholarship for Service program leads sessions on diversity and inclusion in the cybersecurity field, presented "Bringing Women and Underrepresented Groups into Cybersecurity" to the Greater Hartford chapter of ISACA. She also shared her findings on the Universitys GenCyber academy at the 2017 annual GenCyber meeting in San Antonio, TX. She coordinates the University of New Havens Vex Robotics Competition that brings high school, middle, and elementary school teams from across the region to campus. Prof. Page is the Tagliatela College of Engineerings liaison to the Engineering and Science University Magnet School, which is located adjacent to campus, and she was the FIRST Robotics mentor for the team that won the New England Districts 2018 Engineering Inspiration Award. She brings a decade of experience as a programmer, analyst, and software manager for Fortune 500 companies, including Aetna and Best Western, to the classroom and her research. A recipient of the Universitys Excellence in Teaching Award, Professor Pages courses include intermediate Java with Java FX, script programming/Python, introduction to data bases, and object-oriented analysis and design. She was named to the Upsilon Pi Epsilon computer science honor society and is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Computer Science Teachers Association. A former high school chemistry teacher in the North Branford public schools, she received her teacher certification in chemistry and general science from Southern Connecticut State University, an M.S. in computer science from the University of New Haven, and a B.S. from the University of Connecticut. See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Cybersecurity and Networks, B.S. Computer Science, B.S. Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. Computer Science, M.S. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
