David Harding, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item David Harding, Ph.D. Professor Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Department Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Department Contact DHarding@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7438 1124 Campbell Ave 202 For the Media Email Media Relations About David Dr. Harding joined the faculty of the University of New Haven in September 1993. He has served as coordinator of the Chemical Engineering program since 2000. Dr. Hardings industrial experience, totaling nine years, includes process engineering in the chemical manufacturing industry and project engineering in the environmental remediation industry. He has been a registered professional engineer for over 15 years. Dr. Harding has significant consulting experience in a variety of industries. Since joining the University of New Haven, Dr. Harding has developed two graduate level courses in the area of Air Pollution. He has been heavily involved in the recent development of the multi-disciplinary engineering curricula for undergraduate engineering students at the University of New Haven. See More See Less Published Books and Articles Yang, Y., S. Lim, C. Wang, D. Harding and G. Haller, Multivariate correlation and prediction of the synthesis of vanadium substituted mesoporous molecular sieves, Microporous and Mesoporous Materials, 67, 245-257 (2003).Lim, S., D. Ciuparu, C. Pak, F. Dobek, Y. Chen, D. Harding, L. Pfefferle and G. Haller, Synthesis and Characterization of Highly Ordered Co-MCM-41 for Production of Aligned Single Walled Carbon Nanotubes (SWNT), J. Phys. Chem. B, 107, 11048-11056 (2003). Ciuparu, D., S.S. Lim, Y. Chen, F. Dobek, D. Harding, G. Haller, and L. Pfefferle, "Synthesis of Carbon Nanotubes on Cobalt Catalysts Incorporated in Mesoporous Molecular Sieves," presented at AIChE annual meeting, San Francisco , California , November 2003.Haller, G.L., Y. Yang, S.S. Lim, C. Wang, and D. Harding, "Multivariate Correlation of Synthesis Variables to Predict the Structure and Composition of Vanadium Substituted Mesoporous Molecular Sieves," presented at AIChE annual meeting, San Francisco , California , November 2003.Lim, S.S., D. Ciuparu, F. Dobek, Y. Chen, D. Harding, L. Pfefferle, and G. Haller "Synthesis and Characterization of Co-MCM-41 for Producing Single Walled Carbon Nanotubes," presented at 18th North American Meeting of the North American Catalysis Society, June 2003.Ciuparu, D., S.S. Lim, Y. Chen, F. Dobek, D. Harding, G. Haller, and L. Pfefferle, "Catalytic Growth of Single-walled Carbon Nanotubes in MCM-41 Templates," presented at 18th North American Meeting of the North American Catalysis Society, June 2003.Ciuparu, D., S.S. Lim, Y. Chen, F. Dobek, D. Harding, G. Haller, and L. Pfefferle, "Catalytic Growth of Uniform Single Walled Carbon Nanotubes using Mesoporous Molecular Sieve Templates," presented at 2003 Nanotechnology Conference and Trade Show, February 2003. Courses Taught EAS 109 Project Planning and Development CM 301Transport Phenomena Analysis CM 401Mass Transfer Operations CM 410LTransport Operations Laboratory CM 521/CM 621 Air Pollution Fundamentals See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemical Engineering, B.S. Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
