Christopher Martinez, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Christopher Martinez, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Computer Engineering Tagliatela College of Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Education B.S. The University of Texas at Austin M.S. The University of Texas at San Antonio Ph.D. The University of Texas at San Antonio About Christopher Christopher Martinez received his B.S. degree from The University of Texas at Austin and his M.S. and Ph.D. from The University of Texas at San Antonio. Currently he is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of New Haven, Connecticut, USA. He has many publications in the area of networks, IP address lookup, and intrusion detection. He has received a Best Paper Award from the 3rd International Conference on Cybernetics and Information Technologies, Systems and Applications. His areas of interest include computer architecture, computer networks, embedded systems, and computer programming. Publications "On Designing Fast Non-Uniformly Distributed IP Address Lookup Hashing Algorithms." IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking. (Accepted February 2009) "Performance of Commercial Multimedia Workloads on the Intel Pentium 4: A Case Study." Computers and Electrical Engineering Journal, Vol. 35, Issue 1 (January 2009), pp. 18-32. "An Ad Hoc Adaptive Hashing Technique for Non-Uniformly Distributed IP Address Lookup in Computer Networks." The Journal of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, Vol. 5, Number 1, 2007. "Optimal XOR Hashing for Non-Uniformly Distributed Address Lookup in Computer Networks." Journal of Networking and Computer Applications, Vol 4, Issue 4 (November 2007), pp. 1397-1427. "Advanced Hash Algorithms with Key Bits Duplication for IP Address Lookup." The Fifth International Conference on Networking and Services, April 2009. "The Design of Efficient Hashing Techniques for IP Address Lookup." Proceeding for the 31st Annual IEEE Conference on Local Computer Networks, Tampa, FL, November 2006. "Advance Hashing Techniques for Non-Uniformly Distributed IP Address Lookup." Proceeding for the Third IASTED International Conference on Communications and Computer Networks, Lima, Peru, October 2006. "Adaptive Hashing for IP Address Lookup in Computer Networks."The 14th IEEE International Conference on Networks, Singapore, September 2006. "An Ad Hoc Adaptive Hashing Technique for Non-Uniformly Distributed IP Address Lookup in Computer Networks." The 3rd International Conference on Cybernetics and Information Technologies, Orlando, Florida, July 2006. "Multimedia Workloads Versus SPEC CPU 2000." Proceedings of SPEC Benchmark Workshop 2006, Austin, Texas, January 2006. "Optimal XOR Hashing for a Linearly Distributed Address Lookup in Computer Networks." Proceedings of Symposium on Architectures for Networking and Communications Systems 2005, Princeton, New Jersey, pp. 203-210, October 2005. Courses Taught Digital Systems 2 Hardware Description Language Computer Architecture Embedded Systems See More See Less Contact Maxcy Hall 120D CMartinez@newhaven.edu (203) 931-2924 Media Contact Email Media Relations Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Computer Engineering, B.S. Computer Science, B.S. Electrical Engineering, B.S. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
