Cheryl Li, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Cheryl Li, Ph.D. MSME Coordinator Mechanical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Contact CLi@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7145 Echlin 109 For the Media Email Media Relations Education B.S. Mechatronics Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering, National University of Singapore Ph.D. Educational Psychology, University of Connecticut About Cheryl Dr. Li has unique cross-disciplinary educational backgrounds in mechatronics engineering (control and robotics) and educational psychology (educational program measurement and assessment). She has extensive research experience in mechatronics, robotics, control, engineering design, and artificial intelligence. She has taught a broad range of courses in general engineering, kinematics and dynamics, systems and control, robotics and mechatronics at universities in Australia, Singapore, and the US. She has also accumulated a rich experience in international joint degree program coordination and international student supervision. Selected Publications in Engineering Li, Q., "A novel Likert scale based on fuzzy sets theory", Expert Systems with Applications (2012).Wu, X.J., Tang, J., Li, Q., and Heng, K.H., "Development of a configuration space motion planner for robot in dynamic environment," Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing, Vol. 25(1), pp. 13-31, 2009.Li, Q., "Experimental validation on the integrated design for a parallel robot", Robotica, Vol. 24, pp. 173-181, 2006.Li, Q., and Zhang, W. J., "A closed-form solution to the crank position corresponding to the maximum velocity of the slider in a centric slider-crank mechanism," ASME Transaction, Journal of Mechanism, Vol.128(3), pp. 654-656, 2006Li, Q., and Wu, F.X., "Control performance improvement of a parallel robot via the Design for Control approach," Mechatronics, Vol. 14(8), pp.947-964, 2004. Selected Publications in Education Li, Q., Swaminathan, H., and Tang, J., "Development of a classification system for engineering student characteristics affecting college enrollment and retention," Journal of Engineering Education, Vol. 98, pp. 361-376, 2009.Li, Q., McCoach, D. B., Swaminathan, H., and Tang, J., "Development of an instrument to measure perspectives of engineering education among college students," Journal of Engineering Education, Vol. 97, pp. 47-56, 2008.Li, Q., "Capturing missing information using fuzzy Likert scale," Northeastern Educational Research Association Annual Conference, October, 2009.Li, Q., "A classification of engineering student characteristics," Northeastern Educational Research Association Annual Conference, October, 2009.Li, Q., "Measurement of characteristics of engineering students: What has been done and what needs to be done?" American Society for Engineering Education, Zone I Conference, March, 2008. Courses Taught EAS109 Project Planning and Development EAS112Methods of Engineering Analysis SE 488 System Engineering Design Process ME 451Robotics and Automation See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Mechanical And Industrial Engineering Department Engineering and Applied Science Education Department University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
