Emese Hadnagy, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Emese Hadnagy, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Environmental Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact EHadnagy@newhaven.edu (203) 932-1232 Working remotely For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Civil Engineering (Environmental Engineering), University of New Hampshire M.S., Civil Engineering (Environmental Engineering), University of New Hampshire M.Sc. (includes a Bachelors degree), Civil Engineering, Budapest University of Technology and Economics About Emese Dr. Emese Hadnagy joined the faculty of the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering in Fall 2014. Dr. Hadnagy teaches both undergraduate and graduate level courses in water resources and environmental engineering (both on-campus and online). In addition, she serves as the academic program coordinator of the online M.S. in Environmental Engineering Program that was launched in January 2015. Dr. Hadnagy has close to 15 years of experience in water resources and environmental engineering (in higher education teaching, research, and industrial environmental consulting). Her current research focuses on innovative chemical treatment technologies and on surface water quality issues. Dr. Hadnagy was attracted to the University of New Haven because of its strong focus on applied engineering education, its innovative efforts in developing online courses, and because she wanted to teach in a small classroom setting where she could have a lot of personal interaction with students. In her courses, she strives to achieve a healthy balance between theory and application, and her main goal is to foster independence in her students to help them transfer the knowledge they gained in the classroom to their current and future jobs. See More See Less Research Interests Dr. Hadnagy has a broad interest in environmental pollution prevention and hazard mitigation in water and related matrices and the common thread of her research is to understand physicochemical processes that control the fate, transport, and remediation of environmental contaminants. Dr. Hadnagys research is a unique blend of experimental and modeling work and she has experience in studying both man-made and natural systems. Her work over the past 15 years involved areas such as watershed level water quality assessment, contaminant treatment in engineered water systems, and remediation of environmental pollutants in soils and sediments. At the University of New Haven, she continues her work studying innovative chemical treatment technologies and she also investigates ways contaminants impact the quality of coastal water systems. Current and Recent Projects "Atrazine Dechlorination in Water by Palladized Magnesium (Mg/Pd)" an evaluation of the efficacy of atrazine degradation using the Mg/Pd bimetal "The Degradation of Energetic Compounds Using Bimetals" a study investigating the degradation of various energetic compounds in wastewater using different formulations of bimetals, such as Mg/Cu, Mg/Zn, and Mg/Ni "Development of an Open Source Spectrophotometer for In Situ Measurement of Dissolved Contaminants in Water" a collaborative project on the development of inexpensive in-situ sensors for surface water quality measurements Selected Publications and Presentations Hadnagy, E., B. Riedinger, J. Vilberg, and A. Koutsospyros (presenter). "Online M.S. Environmental Engineering Programs The University of New Haven Experience" (peer-reviewed conference proceeding & presentation), 13th International Conference on Protection and Restoration of the Environment, Jul 2016, Mykonos Island, Greece Hadnagy, E., K.H. Gardner, W.H. Chesner, H. Justus, M. Forgione, G. Maxwell. "Pilot Scale Evaluation of an In-Situ Amendment Delivery and Mixing Device for Contaminated Sediment Remediation Applications." J. of Soils and Sediments, 2015, 15(2): 480-489. Hadnagy, E., K. Gardner, B. Smith, H. Rectanus, D. Nair, and R. Fimmen. "Causes of Metals Release in Response to In-Situ Chemical Oxidation Applications" (presentation), The 29th Annual International Conference on Soils, Sediments, Water and Energy, Oct 2013, Amherst, MA Hadnagy, E., K. Gardner, S. Weil, B. Skarin, G. Mizrahi, A. Chang, and C. Keskin, "Evaluation of Sediment Remedial Alternatives from a Contaminant Bioaccumulation Perspective Spatial Considerations and Uncertainty Assessment" (poster), SETAC North America 32nd Annual Meeting, Nov 2011, Boston, MA Carbonneau, K., E. Hadnagy, and J. Fairclough, "In Situ Stabilization/Solidification Pilot Testing of Coal Tar Contaminated Sediment in Sydney Harbor, Nova Scotia", The 25th Annual International Conference on Soils, Sediments, Water and Energy, Oct 2009, Amherst, MA Hadnagy, E., K.H. Gardner, and I. Calante, "Polychlorinated Biphenyl Dechlorination and Bioavailability in Marine and Freshwater Sediments" (presentation), Fifth International Conference on Remediation of Contaminated Sediments, Feb 2009, Jacksonville, FL Hawkins, A.L., K.H. Gardner, J.A. Bleiler, and E. Hadnagy, "In Situ Wetland Restoration Demonstration" (poster), Partners in Environmental Technology Technical Symposium & Workshop, Dec 2008, Washington, D.C. Hadnagy, E., L. Rauch, and K.H. Gardner. "Dechlorination of Polychlorinated Biphenyls, Naphthalenes, and Dibenzo-p-Dioxins by Magnesium/Palladium Bimetallic Particles." J. of Environmental Science and Health, Part A, 2007, 42(6): 685-695. Courses Taught CIVL 3306 Hydraulics CIVL 3309 Water Resources Engineering CIVL 6618 Hazardous Waste Treatment CIVL 6620/4520 Engineering Hydrology CIVL 6623/4523 Open Channel Hydraulics See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Civil Engineering, B.S. Civil Engineering, M.S. Environmental Engineering, M.S. Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
