Michael Collura, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Michael Collura, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus Chemistry & Chemical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact MCollura@newhaven.edu For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering, Lehigh University M.S. in Chemical Engineering, Lehigh University B.S. in Chemical Engineering, Lafayette College Licensed Professional Engineer, Pennsylvania About Michael Dr. Collura joined the faculty of the University of New Haven in September of 1987 as Director of the new Chemical Engineering Program. He guided the program through its initial ABET accreditation in 1994, resulting in full accreditation. He served as department chair from September 1993 through 2002. During the past several years he led the development and implementation of the unique Multidisciplinary Engineering Foundation Spiral Curriculum, a 2-year sequence of multidisciplinary courses taken by all engineering students at the University of New Haven. Prior to joining the University of New Haven faculty, he taught at Lafayette College. Dr. Colluras industrial experience includes research in coal liquefaction and wastewater treatment as well as process development for chemicals manufacturing. His current interests include computer applications in chemical engineering, modeling and control of processes, and innovations in engineering education. He is a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (former chair of the Yankee Clippers section) and the American Society for Engineering Education. Personal interests include guitar (contemporary liturgical music), percussion, home improvement projects, photography, and science fiction. See More See Less Published Books and Articles "Effect of Freshman Chemistry on Student Performance in Sophomore Engineering Courses", Proceedings of the ASEE 20119 National Conference & Exposition, Session W522A "A Model for Coordination and Management of resources for Multiple Sections of an Active-Learning Style Freshman Course", Proceedings of the ASEE 2009 National Conference & Exposition, Session 1102 "How Accurate Is Students' Self-Assessment of Computer Skills?", Proceedings of the ASEE 2008 National Conference & Exposition, Session 2439 "The Current Generation of Integrated Engineering Curriculum", Proceedings of the ASEE 2007 National Conference & Exposition, Session 1430 "A Multidisciplinary Modeling Course as a Foundation for Study of an Engineering Discipline", Proceedings of the ASEE 2006 National Conference and Exposition, Session 1693 "Are Attitudes Toward Engineering Influenced by a Project-Based Introductory Course?", Proceedings of the ASEE 2005 National Conference & Exposition, Session 1793 "Adapting a Traditional Chemical Engineering program to Follow a Multidisciplinary Engineering Foundation Spiral", Proceedings of the ASEE 2005 National Conference & Exposition, Session 3613 "Learning the Methods of Engineering Analysis Using Case Studies, Excel, and VBA", Proceedings of the ASEE 2004 National Conference & Exposition, Session 1520 "Development of a Multidisciplinary Engineering Foundation Spiral", Curricular Change Issues, Proceedings of the ASEE 2004 National Conference & Exposition,Session 2630 See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Engineering, B.S. Chemical Engineering, B.S. Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Department of Engineering and Applied Science Education University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
