Kristine Horvat, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Kristine Horvat, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Chemical Engineering Chemical Engineering Program Director Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact KHorvat@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4515 1124 Campbell Ave., 203 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D. Materials Science & Engineering, Stony Brook University, NY M.S. Materials Science & Engineering, Stony Brook University, NY B.E. Chemical & Molecular Engineering, Stony Brook University, NY About Kristine Research Interests I am interested in finding alternative sources of energy, especially those that are cleaner for the environment. Specific areas of interest include gas hydrates. A vast amount of energy-rich methane containing hydrates occur naturally in permafrost and marine environments when water and gas come in contact, but their extraction is costly and could result in seafloor instability. A solution is to exchange methane with carbon dioxide in methane hydrate reservoirs to form more stable carbon dioxide hydrates. I am interested in understanding the thermodynamics and kinetics of this exchange process. I also plan to work on projects investigating biofuel options, particularly those from cellulosic or algal sources. Selected Publications Wu, B., Ni, B.-J., Horvat, K., Song, L., Chai, X., Dai, X., & Mahajan, D. Occurrence State and Molecular Structure Analysis of Extracellular Proteins with Implications to the Dewaterability of Waste Activated Sludge. Environmental Science & Technology 2017. Horvat, K. & Mahajan, D. Carbon Dioxide-Induced Liberation of Methane from Laboratory-Formed Methane Hydrates. Canadian Journal of Chemistry 2015. Kerkar, P., Horvat, K., Mahajan D., & Jones, K. Imaging Methane Hydrates Growth Dynamics in Porous Media Using Synchrotron X-ray Computed Microtomography. Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems 2014, 15(12), 4759-4768. [An image from this paper was used for the issues cover page.] Kerkar, P. B., Horvat, K.., Mahajan D., & Jones, K. W. Formation and Dissociation of Methane Hydrates from Seawater in Consolidated Sand: Mimicking Methane Hydrate Dynamics beneath the Seafloor. Energies 2013, 6 (12), 6225-6241. Horvat, K., Kerkar, P., Jones, K., & Mahajan, D. Kinetics of the Formation and Dissociation of Gas Hydrates from CO2-CH4 Mixtures. Energies 2012, 5(7), 2248-2262. Book Chapter Gill, S., Horvat, K., & Rao, T. Increasing National Laboratory and University Collaborations: The Career Advancement in Research Environments Workshop Series at Brookhaven National Laboratory. In Forward to Professorship in STEM Inclusive Faculty Development Strategies That Work; Heller, R. S.; Mavriplis, C.; Sabila, P. S., Eds. Elsevier 2015. ISBN: 978-0-12-800855-3. Professional Activities I am currently the advisor to the Chemical Engineering Club; contact me if you are interested in getting involved. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemical Engineering, B.S. Deparment of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
