M. Ali Montazer, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item M. Ali Montazer, Ph.D. Professor, Industrial and Systems Engineering Graduate Coordinator, Industrial Engineering, Engineering and Operations Management Industrial & System Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact AMontazer@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7050 Echlin 107 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., University at Buffalo - State University of New York (SUNY) M.S. Industrial Engineering/Human Factors, University at Buffalo - SUNY B.S. in Industrial Engineering (Cum Laude), University at Buffalo - SUNY About Ali Program coordinator for Undergraduate Industrial and Systems Engineering Graduate program coordinator for Engineering and Operations Management and Industrial Engineering Dr. M. Ali Montazer is currently a Professor of Industrial Engineering in the Tagliatela College of Engineering. He previously served as the Tagliatela College of Engineering interim dean (12/2010-7/2011), Associate Dean (2007-2010), IE department Chair 1992-98 and again during 2003-2006. He earned the BSIE (Cum Laude), MSIE and the Ph.D. from the University at Buffalo. He was awarded the University's Distinguished Teaching Award in 1988; has taught in the areas of production and operations research and management, statistical methods, ergonomics, and simulation and modeling; has also taught in the University's MBA, Executive MBA and the former Master of Science in Engineering Management (MSEM) Programs. His current research and industry project interests include simulation modeling of production systems and business operations, statistical methods and lean /six sigma initiatives; has worked on lean and simulation modeling projects with the Bilco Company, Consolidated Industries, Valley Tool & Manufacturing, Remington Products Company, and Unilever (Clinton, CT). Published Books and Articles Improving the Repair and Maintenance Work Order Process at a VA Hospital, (co-authors: Scott M. Weber, Kimberly Severino), accepted for presentation at the POMS annual conference in Seattle, WA, May 2017 From Schewhart-Deming Cycle to Lean Six Sigma: Robust tools for Healthcare Quality and Cost Improvment, accepted for presentation at the POMS annual conference in Seattle, WA, May 2017 "Lateral-Longitudinal Position Distribution in Non-visual Target Aiming", submitted to Ergonomics, July 2010, (co-authors H. Shahriari and N. Beheshti)"System Engineering - a new multidisciplinary program", New England - ASEE Annual Conference, University of Rhode Island, April 2007 (co-author Barry J. Farbrother) "Institutionalizing Experiential Education", presented at the Annual Conference of the National Society for Experiential Education, Seattle, WA, November 2007 (Co-presenter Christie Boronico)"Simulation Modeling in Operations Management: A Sampling of Applications", Proceedings of the 14th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society, April 2-5, 2003, Savannah, Georgia (Co-authors Kursad Ece, and Hakan Alp)"A Feasibility Study for Implementing a Cellular Manufacturing Solution for a Foil Cutter Production Line", Proceedings of the 12th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society, March 30- April 2, 2001, Orlando, Florida (Co-author Alan J. Peterson) "Performance Analysis of a High-Speed Production Line Using Simulation", Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations Management Society, April 1-4, 2000,San Antonio TX (Co-author Troy W. Turner). Courses Taught Simulation Modeling Applied Engineering Statistics Operations Research Queuing Theory Linear Programming Nonlinear Programming Human Factors Engineering Business Statistics Introduction to Engineering Executive level courses in: Probability, Statistics, Quality, Simulation, and Lean See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering, B.S. Engineering & Operations Management, M.S. Industrial Engineering, M.S. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
