Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact VBehzadan@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4723 Maxcy Hall 120A Personal Pages Personal Page SAIL Lab Research Group For the Media Email Media Relations About Vahid Vahid Behzadan is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Data Science. He is also the founder and director of the Secure and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) research group, and mentors the University's hacking team. Dr. Behzadan's research is primarily on the safety and security of artificial intelligence and complex adaptive systems. His pioneering work on the security of deep reinforcement learning is recognized as seminal contributions to this growing field of research. Dr. Behzadan's recent work includes publications on the applications of machine learning to security and safety assessment of complex systems, such as driverless cars, unmanned aerial systems, and smart cities. He has presented numerous invited talks on the security of machine learning, and applications of data science in cybersecurity at venues such as the Open Web Application Security Project (OWSAP) foundation, the Black Hat conference, and UK's Transportation Research Laboratory (TRL). His research on the psychopathological approach to AI safety has been featured in national and international news. Dr. Behzadan received his Ph.D. from Kansas State University, where he also co-founded the K-State AI Safety Research Initiative. Previously, he was at the Computer Networking Lab, University of Nevada in Reno and the Microwave research group at the University of Birmingham, UK. He received his B. Eng. in computer and communication systems engineering from the University of Birmingham, UK, and his M.S. in computer science from the University of Nevada, Reno. See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Cybersecurity and Networks, B.S. Cybersecurity and Networks, M.S. Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science News and In the Media NBC Connecticut: Officials Warn Connecticut's Unemployed About Fraud Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the concern of the phishing scam that was launched against the Department of Labor. SAIL-Lab: Combating Human Trafficking via Automated Intelligence Collection, Validation, and Fusion Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, has partnered with Love Justice International to develop machine learning tools for monitoring and tracking indicators of human trafficking on social media and online. Tech World News: Controversial Plan Urges DoD to Recruit Tech Pros to WFH Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments how the lack of physical supervision and inspection can compromise the DoDs core mission. NBC Connecticut: Pandemic Leads to Higher Demand for Computers Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the demand for laptops and tablets amid the pandemic. Newsday: LI artificial intelligence startup can write your emails Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the concern this type of tools has for spamming or fake news. NBC Connecticut: Classes Begin in Hartford After Ransomware Attack Postponed First Day of School Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about this type of malware and the effect on computers. Fox61: Schools becoming common targets of Ransomware attacks Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about the recent ransomware attack on the Hartford Public School system and what it means. NBC Connecticut: Ransomware Attacks City of Hartford Servers, Postpones First Day of School Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about how ransomware infects data. NBC Connecticut: Contact Tracing Apps Prompt Privacy Concerns Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, talks about how the aggregation of data may reveal your identity. Connecticut Magazine: How to protect your digital castle from scammers Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on growing numbers of fraud as more people are working from home. Lars Larson Show: Vahid Behzadan We are seeing a massive increase in cyber-attacks during the Coronavirus lockdown Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, discusses the recent types of cyber-attacks, including ransomware. Unite.AI: Vahid Behzadan, Director of Secured and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) Lab Interview Series Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, gave an in-depth interview on cybersecurity, AI and as the director of the Secure and Assured Intelligent Learning (SAIL) Lab. Voice of America: Most of the employees of the US Department of Defense work at home and foreign cyber espionage surges Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, comments on the security risks for using Zoom at the Department of Defense. Information Security Buzz: U.S. Health Agency Suffers Cyber-Attack Expert Reaction Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering and computer science, discusses the recent cyberattack on HHS. CT Insider: On the front lines of coronavirus: CT experts talk Summer Johnson McGee, dean of the School of Health Sciences, and Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer science in the Tagliatela College of Engineering, discuss how coronavirus is impacting their field of expertise. University of New Haven Professors Analysis of Coronavirus Goes Far Beyond Public Health Faculty members from across the University are joining School of Health Sciences public health researchers in sharing their expertise in areas ranging from the economy and technology to travel and tourism to examine the global impact of the coronavirus outbreak. Forbes: Coronavirus: Can AI (Artificial Intelligence) Make A Difference? Vahid Behzadan, assistant professor of computer science, discusses leveraging recent advances in AI for enhancement of vaccine strategies. AXIOS: AI might need a therapist, too Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, discusses the possible need of psychology for AI in the future. CNET: Will AI need therapy in the future? A paper written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, Psychopathological Approach to Safety Engineering in AI and AGI is discussed. Huff Post France: Il faudra bientt des psychologues pour intelligence artificielle, selon ces chercheurs A paper about the future need of AI psychologists, written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, is discussed. Soundcloud: ABC News Interview Listen to the ABC News Interview Recording with Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, about the future need of AI psychologists. Yahoo! actualites: Il faudra bientt des psychologues pour intelligence artificielle, selon ces chercheurs A paper written by Vahid Behzadan, Ph.D., assistant professor of computer science, about the future need of AI psychologists is discussed. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
