Nadiye O. Erdil, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Nadiye O. Erdil, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Industrial and Systems Engineering Undergraduate Coordinator, Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Engineering and Applied Science Education Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact NErdil@newhaven.edu (203) 932-7251 Echlin 110 For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, State University of New York at Binghamton M.Sc., Industrial Engineering, State University of New York at Binghamton B.Sc., Computer Engineering, Bogazii University, Istanbul, Turkey About Nadiye Research Interests Applications of Lean Practices, Statistical Analysis, and Simulation Modeling and Analysis in healthcare and manufacturing systems. Her primary focus is on the use of information technology, quality and productivity improvement, and design and implementation of quality management systems in healthcare delivery operations. Teaching Interests Quality Management, Statistical Quality Control, Engineering Economics, Project Management, Modeling and Simulation, Engineering Statistics, Introduction to Engineering. Professional Societies Institute of Industrial Engineers, MemberIIE Council of Industrial Engineering Academic Department Heads, MemberAmerican Society for Engineering Education, MemberEngineers without Borders, Turkey, Co-founder & Vice President Alpha Pi Mu - Industrial Engineering Honor Society, Member Selected Publications Nadiye O. Erdil, "Developing Introductory Engineering Courses to Increase Student Interest and Engagement in Engineering", Women in Industrial Engineering Academia 2012, Istanbul, Turkey, June 2012Nadiye O. Erdil and C. Robert Emerson, "Simulation Modeling of Electronic Health Records Adoption in the U.S. Healthcare System", in Proceedings of the 27th International Conference of the System Dynamics Society, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA, July 2009Nadiye O. Erdil and C. Robert Emerson, "Analysis of Electronic Health Record Adoption in the U.S. Healthcare System", in Proceedings of AMIA 2009 Spring Congress, Orlando, Florida, USA, May 2009Nadiye O. Erdil and C. Robert Emerson, "Modeling the Dynamics of Electronic Health Records Adoption in the U.S. Healthcare System" in Proceedings of the 26th International Conference of the System Dynamics Society, Athens, Greece, July 2008Nadiye O. Erdil and Koenraad E. Gieskes, "An Evaluation of a Learning Community Program For Freshman Engineering Students" in 2008 ASEE Zone I Student Papers Proceedings, West Point, New York, USA, March 2008 Courses Taught At Previous Institutions Introduction to Engineering Elementary Product and Process Design Project Management Cost Estimating for Engineers Engineering Economics Analysis Principles of Systems Engineering See More See Less Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Industrial Systems Engineering, B.S. Engineering & Operations Management, M.S. Industrial Engineering, M.S. Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department of Engineering and Applied Science Education University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
