Byungik Chang, Ph.D., P.E., MBA - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Byungik Chang, Ph.D., P.E., MBA Associate Professor, Civil Engineering Chair of Civil and Environmental Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact BChang@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4234 19 Ruden Street 101D For the Media Email Media Relations Education M.B.A in General Business, West Texas A&M University Ph.D. in Civil Engineering (Structural Engineering), Iowa State University M.S. in Civil Engineering (Structural Engineering), Iowa State University B.S. in Civil Engineering, Iowa State University About Byungik Dr. Byungik Chang joined the Department of Mechanical, Civil, and Environmental Engineering as an Associate Professor of Civil Engineering in Fall 2013. Dr. Changs background and research activities are in the areas of structural engineering, wind engineering, and wind energy. He received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. in Civil engineering from Iowa State University in 2002, 2004, and 2007, respectively. Dr. Chang was also awarded his MBA degree from West Texas A&M University in 2012. His doctoral work focused on addressing a critical need related to the unexpected failure of slender light poles. Prior research from his masters degree work at Iowa State University included design verification, behavior analysis, and nonlinear modeling of an incrementally launched bridge to obtain roller-girder contact stresses using the finite element method. Before Dr. Byungik Chang joined the University of New Haven, he worked as an Assistant Professor in the School of Engineering and Computer Science and a Director of the Alternative Energy Institute at West Texas A&M University. Dr. Chang also worked for the Arizona Department of Transportation for two years. He is a registered professional engineer in Arizona. Dr. Byungik Chang and his wife, Hyesun (Sunny) Cheong, have two children: Eugene and Justin. Dr. Chang enjoys playing tennis, basketball, racquetball, soccer, and other sports. See More See Less Selected Publications 1. B. Chang*, M. Bourland, T. Couch, H. Zou, and T. Jung "Analysis of Texas Superheavy Load Criteria for Bridges." ASCE Journal of Performance of Construction and Facilities, In-Press. 2. W. Bai, B. Chang*, G. Chen, K. Starcher, D. Carr, and R. Issa. "Small wind turbine power performance testing with uncertainty analysis" Advanced Materials Research, Vol. 857-877, Feb. 2014, pp. 1944-1948. 3. B. Chang*, B. Phares, H. Zou, and T. Couch "Thermal Analysis of a Highway Overhead Support Structure" Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2406, TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D.C., 2014, pp. 32-41. 4. B. Chang*, R. Issa, M. Neill, and A. Miller "Development of Wind Vortex Shedding Coefficients for a Multisided Cylinder Structure Fatigue Design." Wind and Structures, Vol. 18, No. 2, 2014. 5. Y. Xie, B. Chang*, K. Starcher, D. Carr, G. Chen, and K. Leitch "Installation of 42kW Solar Photovoltaics and 50kW Wind Turbine Systems" Journal of Green Building, Vol. 8, Issue 3, 2013. 6. G. Romig, B. Chang*, K. Leitch, and A. Hunt. "Analysis of internet visitors on educational websites" American International Journal of Social Science, Vol. 2, No. 5, 2013. 7. B. Chang*, K. Starcher, D. Carr, and A. Miller "Renewables in the Desert Southwest: Sustainable, Suitable, and Supplementary" Journal of Green Building, Vol. 8, Issue 2, 2013. 8. A. Miller, B. Chang*, R. Issa, and G. Chen "Review of Computer-Aided Numerical Simulation in Wind Energy" Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews, Vol. 25, 2013. 9. D. Leer, B. Chang*, G. Chen, D. Carr, K. Starcher, and R. Issa. "Windtane contour map of the state of Texas" Renewable Energy, Vol. 58, 2013. 10. B. Chang*, K. Mirtalaei, S. Lee, and K. Leitch, "Optimization of Post-Tensioned Box Girder Bridges with Special References to Use of High Strength Concrete Using AASHTO LRFD Method." Advances in Civil Engineering, Volume 2012, July 2012 11. B. Chang*, K. Mirtalaei, S. Lee, and K. Leitch, "Structural Behavior and Design of Barrier-Overhang Connection in Concrete Bridge Superstructures Using AASHTO LRFD Method." Advances in Civil Engineering, Volume 2012, July 2012. 12. R. Issa* and B. Chang, "Performance Prediction of a Multi-Stage Wind Tower for Indoor Cooling." Journal of Thermal Science, Vol. 21, No. 4, 2012. 13. B. Chang*, P. P. Sarkar, and B. M. Phares, "Aerodynamic Model in Time-domain for Predicting Aerodynamic Loads on a Slender Support Structure." The ASCE Journal of Engineering Mechanics, Vol. 136, No. 6, June 2010, pp. 736-746. 14. B. Chang*, B. M. Phares, P. P. Sarkar, and T. J. Wipf, "Development of a Procedure for Fatigue Design of Slender Support Structures Subjected to Wind-induced Vibration." Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board, No. 2131, TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D.C., 2009, pp. 23-33. (Note: * denotes 'Corresponding Author') Teaching Interests Dr. Chang's teaching interests are in structural analysis, steel/reinforced concrete design, bridge design, wind engineering, and others. He has been teaching fundamentals of engineering, statics, mechanics of materials, structural analysis, steel design, computer-aided structural analysis, computer-aided draft design, robotics, computer programming, and plastics and composites. Research Interests Dr. Changs research has been focused on structural engineering, wind engineering, and wind energy. His strength is in numerical modeling and structural analysis for civil engineering applications. He has worked on several state highway agency projects assisted by graduate and undergraduate students. See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Civil Engineering, B.S. Civil Engineering, M.S. Civil and Environmental Engineering Department In the Media Point2Homes: Buying a House: The Step-by-Step Guide Every Homebuyer Needs Byungik Chang, associate professor of civil engineering, comments on the structural inspection list buyers should review before purchasing a home. University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
