John Osambo, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item John Osambo, Ph.D. Lecturer, Chemistry Chemical Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemistry & Chemical Engineering Department Contact JOsambo@newhaven.edu (203) 479-4880 1124 Campbell Ave., 101A For the Media Email Media Relations Education Ph.D., Analytical Chemistry, University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH, 2009 Thesis title: "Chemical Sensors Based on Swellable Polymer Microparticles and Molecular Imprinted Polymers" Advisor: Professor Rudolf W. Seitz Post Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE),Egerton University, Kisii College campus, Kisii, Kenya, 1999. BS. Honors (Chemistry & Mathematics), Egerton University, Njoro, Kenya, 1991 Teaching Experience Dr. Osambo joined the department in August 2013. Prior to joining University of New Haven, Dr. Osambo was a visiting chemistry instructor at Colby Sawyer College. He has also been an adjunct Chemistry instructor in Plymouth State University, University of Massachusetts Lowell, Worcester State University, Northern Essex Community College and also a visiting instructor at College of The Holy Cross. 01/2012-08/13 Visiting Assistant Professor of chemistry: Colby-Sawyer CollegeTeaching Chemical Principles lectures and labs, preparing course syllabus, exams, homework, and grading. Advising undergraduate students. 02/2010- 05/2012 Adjunct Instructor: Plymouth State UniversityTeaching general chemistry lectures and labs, preparing course syllabus, exams, homework and grading. Advising undergraduate students. 09/2011-12/2011 Adjunct instructor: Worcester State UniversityTeaching general chemistry lectures and labs.Preparing course syllabus, exams, homeworks and grading, advisingundergraduate students. 09/2010-05/2011 Chemistry Instructor: University of Massachusetts LowellTeaching General Chemistry I and II, Preparing syllabus, exams and grading. Reviewing text book for the course. 01/2009-05/2011 Chemistry instructor: Northern Essex Community College Teaching lectures and labs in Introductory Chemistry and Physiological Chemistry, Preparing course syllabus, exams, and grading. 08/2008-12/2009 Lead Teaching Assistant: University of New HampshireCoordinating and supervising general chemistry lab and tutoring process.Assigning grading and proctoring responsibilities to teaching assistants. 08/2007-05/2008 Visiting Instructor: College of The Holy CrossTeaching General Chemistry and conducting discovery generalchemistry labs.Teaching Chemistry and society (none science major) course.Prepared course syllabus for both general chemistry and chemistryand society courses.Prepared and graded homework and exams for both generalchemistry and chemistry and society courses Summer 2007 Instructor for general chemistry II:University of New HampshireReporting to Chemistry department chair. Prepared the course syllabus. Prepared, moderated, and administered homework, tests, and examinations. Supervised teaching assistants for general chemistry labs. Participated in designing of general chemistry labs. Overseeing the running of general chemistry labs Spring 2007 Co-instructor for general chemistry (II) recitation sessions with Prof. Rudolf Seitz.Assigned, and evaluated recitation problems. Taught recitation classes with instructor. Teaching Assistant, Department of Chemistry, University of New Hampshire. Conducting General Chemistry recitation session with faculty member. Taught general Chemistry labs band tutored general Chemistry. Graded quizzes, homework and examinations. 2001-2006 Teaching Assistant: University of New HampshireTutoring general chemistry. Maintained and tested laboratory instruments in readiness for chemistry experiments. Designed experimental procedures, identified and rectified technical problems in general chemistry labs. Taught general chemistry labs 1992-1999High School Chemistry Teacher, Teachers Service Commission (TSC), Nairobi KenyaTaught Chemistry, designed, and graded tests, homework, and examinations, participated in educational conferences and teacher. Workshops Counseled and advised students on conduct and career opportunities. Research Experience Dr. Osambos graduate research focused on synthesizing functionalized or smartpolymer microspheres for both molecular and transition metal ion recognitions. Developingchemical sensors for analysis of glucose, caffeine, and theophylline. 2006-2007: Research Assistant, University of New HampshireSupervisor: Professor Rudolf W. SeitzSynthesized monomers for preparation of polymer microspheres. Synthesized and characterized molecular imprinted polymer microspheres (MIP) for analysis of caffeine, theophylline, and glucose. Experience in analytical spectroscopic techniques. 2001-2006:Graduate Research, University of New Hampshire Advisor: Professor Rudolf W. Seitz 1991-1992: Research Assistant, Muhoroni Sugar Company Ltd. Muhoroni, KenyaSeparated and purified various brands of spirits by fractional distillation process in industrial scale. Publications Fluorescent Ratiometric Indicators Based on Cu(II)-Induced Changes in Poly(NIPAM) Microparticle Volume. John Osambo1, W. Rudolf Seitz1, Daniel P. Kennedy1,2, Roy P. Planalp1, Aaron M. Jones2, Randy K. Jackson2, and Shawn Burdette3. Sensors 2013, 13, 1341-1352; doi:10.3390/s130101341 Presentations 2007-National American Chemical Society, Division of Analytical Chemistryposter presentation, Boston, MA. Awards 1998 Team Leader of the Year Award, Kenya National Examinations Council,Nairobi, Kenya 1997 District Level Chemistry Teachers Award, Department of education, KisiiDistrict, Kenya 1995 Provincial Science Teachers Award, Department of education, Nyanza Province,Kenya 1994 Science Project Facilitator Award, Kenya High Schools Science Symposium, Affiliations American Chemical Society (ACS) New England Board of Higher Education (NEBHE) See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Chemistry, B.S. Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
