Carl Barratt, Ph.D. - University of New Haven Skip to main content SPRING 2021 CAMPUS REOPENING AND COVID-19 INFORMATION - Updated December 10, 2020 The Phased Plan for Return to Campus - Spring 2021 At the University of New Haven, the health and safety of all members of our community remain our top priority. We have reimagined life at the University to help deliver high-quality education in as safe an environment as possible. This website provides updated information about our response to the pandemic and our ongoing efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This website has been updated with information for the Spring 2021 semester. A chronological list of the latest updates to this information is available on the page linked below. Visit Page CURRENT CAMPUS COVID-19 ALERT LEVEL GREEN (Low Risk) Cases are rare and transmission controlledLearn More Close Getting Here Visitors Policy & Access to Campus Guidelines Campus Locations and Maps Shuttles & Transportation Parking Events Events Athletics New Haven Chargers Admissions Visit Opportunities Undergraduate Accepted Student Events Information Sessions Open Houses Enhanced Visits Major-Specific Events One-on-One Campus Visits Graduate Information Sessions Open Houses Virtual Tour All Visit Opportunities University of New Haven Main Search Visit University of New Haven Main Reopening Info Employers Parents & Families Veterans myCharger Apply Inquire Give Directory Academics Academics at the University Programs A-Z College of Arts and Sciences Pompea College of Business Henry C. Lee College of Criminal Justice and Forensic Sciences Tagliatela College of Engineering School of Health Sciences Library See More Academic Centers and Institutes Student Success and Support Honors Societies Core Curriculum Academic Service-Learning Study Abroad Academic Calendar and Registration Course Catalog See Less Student Life Student Life Overview Get Involved! Career Development Safety & Security Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellness Living on Campus Dining See More Commuter Resources Graduate Student Services Student Affairs and Dean of Students Office New Student Orientation Campus Store Commencement See Less About About the University University Centennial Accreditation Facts & Figures Awards & Affiliations University Leadership Board of Governors Offices & Departments State-of-the-Art Facilities Employment See More Campus Locations & Maps Info for Visitors, Parking & Shuttles Title IX and Equal Opportunity See Less Admissions Apply Request Information Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students Online Programs Tuition & Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Pre-College Programs & Partnerships Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni Events Alumni Involvement Alumni Association Alumni Magazine Alumni Benefits Alumni Relations Staff Research Research Overview Labs & Groups Faculty Research Student Fellowships & Research Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) Grants & Sponsored Programs Explore Explore the University News Events Digital Downloads Community Profiles The Arts on Campus West Haven & Beyond Athletics Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Faculty & Staff Profiles Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Parent Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Parent Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 3 Nav Item Level 2 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Level 1 Nav Item Carl Barratt, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Tagliatela College of Engineering Contact CBarratt@newhaven.edu For the Media Email Media Relations Education B.S. in Mathematics & Physics, University of Bristol, England Ph.D. in Theoretical (High Energy) Physics, University of Cambridge (Cavendish Laboratory), England About Carl Dr. Barratt received his B.S. in Mathematics and Physics with 1st class honors from Bristol University, England in 1974, and his Ph.D. in Theoretical High Energy Physics from Cambridge University in 1977. After teaching in the Department of Mathematics at Durham University for a year, he crossed the Atlantic to take up a visiting position in the Department of Physics & Astronomy at the University of Georgia, in Athens. After holding assistant professorships at Center College, KY and at UCLA, he joined the Department of Physics at the University of New Haven in 1982. In 1984 he moved to the Department of Mechanical Engineering where he now has the rank of professor. Dr. Barratts research interests are broad and include nonlinear systems, chaotic dynamics, vibrations, and most recently, chemical kinetics in prebiotic earth. Dr. Barratt is a member of the American Physical Society and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. See More See Less Selected Publications C. Barratt and P.M. Schwartz, "Analysis of the Penney-Ante Game Using Difference Equations: Development of an Optimal and a Mixed Strategies Protocol", Journal of Mathematical Research , Dec. 12. P.M. Schwartz, D. Lepore and C. Barratt, "Kinetic Models of the Prebiotic Replication of dsRNA under Thermal Cycling Conditions," Int. J.Chem. , 4(5), 9-15, Oct.'12 C. Barratt and R. Sharma , "An inductive proof of the condition for the AM-GM equality", The Mathematical Gazette , March 2012, pp131-133. P.M. Schwartz, D. Lepore, Morneau and C. Barratt, "Demonstrating Optical Activity Using an iPad," J. of Chem. Education , Oct.11, pp1692-3. D. Lepore, C. Barratt and P.M. Schwartz, "Computational Models of Chemical Systems Inspired by Braess Paradox," J. Math. Chem., 49: 356-370, 2011. C. Barratt, D. Lepore, M. Cherubini and P.M. Schwartz, "Computational Models of Thermal Cycling in Chemical Systems," Int. J. Chem., 2: 19-27, 2010. C.Barratt, "On the Control of Chaos in Extended Structures," Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Vibration and Acoustics, Vol 119, Oct. 1997, pp 551-556. C.Barratt, "Comment on "Controlling Extended Systems of Chaotic Elements' by D. Auerbach," Courses Taught Mechanical Engineering - Graduate & Undergraduate Courses Engineering & Applied Science Courses The Politics of US Immigration Physics - Undergraduate Courses See Full Resume Details See Less Full Resume Details Related Links Tagliatela College of Engineering Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, M.S. Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department University of New Haven 300 Boston Post Rd West Haven, CT 06516 203-932-70001-800-342-5864 Reopening Info News Response to Blackbaud Data Breach Campus Locations and Maps Public Safety Library Employment The Charger Challenge Faculty & Staff Directory myCharger Blackboard Alumni Email Information Technology Support Emergency Notifications Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Online Privacy Statement Send Us Feedback Equal Opportunity and Wrongful Conduct Reporting
