UTSA | COEHD | University of Texas at San Antonio | College of Edcuation and Human Development Update: UTSA's ongoing monitoring of the Coronavirus outbreak Search Search icons myUTSA UTSA Today Visit Directory Search Toggle navigation About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Giving Athletics Alumni News Sat, December 12, 2020 About Students Prospective Students Current Students Degrees/Programs Offered Faculty Academics Departments Bicultural-Bilingual Studies Counseling Educational Leadership & Policy Studies Educational Psychology Interdisciplinary Learning & Teaching Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (REGSS) Teacher Certification Teacher Certification Centers The Academy for Teacher Excellence Autism Research Center (TEAM center) Center for the Inquiry of Transformative Literacies UTSA Sarabia Family Counseling Center The Psychological Assessment and Consultation Center Urban Education Institute San Antonio Writing Project Research Directory News COEHD News Events Journals Association of Mexican American Educators (AMAE) Journal Bilingual Review/Revista Bilinge Chicana/Latina Studies: The Journal of Mujeres Activas en Letras y Cambio Social Dimensions of Early Childhood Journal of Creativity in Mental Health Research and Practice in the Schools Journal of Literacy Research The Journal of Cases in Educational Leadership Support COEHD Timothy T Yuen Associate Professor and Assistant Chair Interdisciplinary Learning and Teaching MB 2.228- Main Campus timothy.yuen@utsa.edu 210-458-5047 No personal website listed Curriculum Vitae Research Biography Biography Timothy T. Yuen is an Associate Professor and Assistant Department Chair in the Department of Interdisciplinary Learning. He is a faculty member in the Instructional Technology Program within ILT and the Director of the EDGE Center, which is a center that investigates how current and emergent technologies can engage learners in today's digital society. Dr. Yuen also holds courtesy appointments in the Department of Computer Science and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He is an active member of education special interest groups of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Dr. Yuen received his PhD in Curriculum and Instruction with an emphasis in Instructional Technology from the University of Texas at Austin. He received his B.S. in Information and Computer Science from the University of California, Irvine and his M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Southern California. Research Dr. Yuen's research focuses on improving student success and broadening diversity in computer science, engineering, and other STEM areas through emergent technologies, transformative teaching practices, and culturally responsive practices. He collaborates extensively with researchers across disciplines (e.g., engineering, computer science, math, bilingual/bicultural studies) on creating more access to STEM for all learners at all levels. His worked have been published in proceedings including ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education and IEEE Teaching and Learning in Engineering Education, and journals, such as Interactive Learning Environment, ACM Transactions on Computing Education, and Cognitive Technology. He recently published a co-edited book on increasing Latinx participation in STEM entitled: (Under)Represented Latin@s in STEM. Currently, he is the project manager for a multi-institutional NSF-funded project on improving student success in engineering through partnering education experts with undergraduate engineering faculty to transform their course designs and teaching practices. In collaboration with ISU, Dr. Yuen is a PI for an NSF grant that investigates the impact of stereotype threats to minority students in engineering. Formerly, he was a senior investigator for a US Department of Education Title V grant in which led the design and implementation of robotics after-school clubs to increase Latinx participation in STEM. He is the group lead of the EDGE-CS Education Group, which is comprised of faculty and students interested in computer science education research and service. This group is actively involved in preparing pre-service and in-service teachers to integrate computer science and programming into their classrooms. Selected Publications Zhang, X., Yuen, T., Choo, K. (expected 2020). Experiential learning in digital forensics. In X. Zhang & K. Choo (Eds), Digital forensics education: An experiential approach. New York, NY: Springer. Azhar, M., Bhatia, S., Gagne, G., Kari, C., Maguire, J., Mountrouidou, X., Tudor, L., Vosen., D., Yuen, T.. (2019). Securing the human: broadening diversity in cybersecurity. Extended abstract in 2019 iTiCSE, ACM. Shen J., Yuen T. T., Choo K.R., & Zeng Q. (2019) AMOGAP: Defending Against Man-in-the-Middleand Offline Guessing Attacks on Passwords. In: Jang-Jaccard J., Guo F. (eds) Information Securityand Privacy. ACISP 2019. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 11547. Cham: Springer. Yuen, T., Bonner, E., & Arreguin-Anderson, M. G. (Eds). (2018).(Under)Represented Latin@s in STEM: Increasing Participation Throughout Education and the Workplace. New York, NY: Peter Lang. Silvestro, S., Yuen, T. T., Crosser, C., Zhu, D., Korkmaz, T., & Liu, T. (2018, February). A User Space-based Project for Practicing Core Memory Management Concepts. In Proceedings of the 49th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (pp. 98-103). ACM. Yuen, T., Reyes, M., & Zhang, Y. (2017). Logic programming for an introductory computer science course for high school students. Theory and Practice of Logic Programming, 1-25. Prieto, L., Arreguin-Anderson, M. G., Yuen, T., Ek, L., Sanchez, P., Machado-Casas, M., & Garcia, A. (2016). Four cases of a sociocultural approach to mobile learning in La Clase Magica, an after-school technology club. Interactive Learning Environments, 1-12. Yuen, T., Arregun-Anderson, M., Carmona, G., & Gibson, M. (2016). A culturally relevant pedagogical approach to computer science education to increase participation of underrepresentedpopulations. Proceedings of the 2016 International Conference on Learning and Teaching in Computing and Engineering (LaTICE), 147-153. IEEE. Pickering, T., Yuen, T., & Wang., T. (2016). STEM conversations in social media: Implications on STEM education. Proceedings of the 2016 International Conference on Teaching, Assessment and Learning for Engineering (TALE), 296-302. IEEE. Curriculum vitae Download Timothy Yuen's Vita: Download Here http://education.utsa.edu/files/yuen_cv.pdf 210.458.4370 | Disclaimer | Employment | Contact Webmaster Contact College of Education and Human Development | Login Back to Top 2019 The University of Texas at San Antonio | One UTSA Circle San Antonio, TX 78249 | Information 210-458-4011 Campus Alerts | Jobs | Required Links | Policies | UT System | Report Fraud | Nondiscrimination and Title IX | Counseling/Mental Health Produced by University Communications and Marketing
