DR. ABBAS SEMNANI Visit Apply Give Visit Apply Give Menu Menu Admissions + Freshman Online Adult/Transfer/Military International Graduate/Professional College Credit Plus Guest Admitted/New Rocket Academics + Arts and Letters Business and Innovation Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Services Honors Law Medicine and Life Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Nursing Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences University College Research + Areas of Research Excellence Research News Research and Sponsored Programs Tech Transfer Research Compliance Human Research Protection Program Economic Development Athletics Alumni About UTMC Giving MyUT Main Menu Electrical Engineering and Computer Science MENU /engineering/electrical-engineering-computer-science/ EECS Home Message from the Chair Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Program Objectives Bachelor's Degree Information EECS Course Descriptions Minor in Computer Science Engineering Link to University Admissions BSCSE Extension Program at Lorain Graduate Programs Research Accreditation Current Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Course Syllabi Alumni & Outreach College of Engineering Home /engineering/electrical-engineering-computer-science/ Faculty Administration Faculty Faculty at LCCC Emeritus Faculty Prestige Faculty Staff Department Resources Department Directory Departmental Committees Labs and Facilities Course Catalog Student Academic Forms Course Offerings by Semester Industrial Partnership Cadence Products Information Links Faculty Openings Alumni Survey Exit Interview /engineering/ Error processing SSI file / Contact Us Main Campus 2008 Nitschke Hall Mail Stop 308 2801 W. Bancroft St. Toledo, OH 43606-3390 Phone: (419) 530-8140 Fax: (419) 530-8146 Electrical Engineering and Computer Science DR. ABBAS SEMNANI Assistant Professor Contact Information EECS DepartmentThe University of ToledoToledo, OH 43606Tel:(419) 530-8150Office: NI 2051E-mail: Abbas.Semnani@utoledo.edu Taught Courses EECS 3440 -Electronics Laboratory Current Students We are looking for self-motivated and hardworking undergraduate and graduate students to join the Adaptive Radio-Frequency and Plasma Lab (ARPL). The ideal candidates should have a theoretical and experimental background in related topics likeElectromagnetics,Microwaves, Antennas, and Plasma Physics. Students are expected to have good analytical and hands-on skills, good work ethics, and scientific curiosity. Funding opportunities would be available for top candidates. Interested students, please contact me via email atabbas.semnani@utoledo.eduwith a brief research interest and your CV. Research Interests High-power microwaves Low-temperature plasma RF nanotechnology Tunable antenna elements and arrays Reconfigurable RF electronics Inverse scattering Electrically-small antennas Plasma metamaterials Computational electromagnetics/plasma physics Wireless power transfers Research Flyer Biography Abbas Semnani received his B.Sc. degree from the University of Tehran in 2000, and the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees from the K. N. Toosi University of Technology in 2002 and 2009, respectively, all in electrical engineering. He is now an Assistant Professor with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Toledo. Before joining the UT in 2019, he was with Purdue University for more than seven years where he was focused on plasma-EM interactions and plasma for high-power RF tuning. Prior to that, he served as a Research and Teaching Associate with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, K. N. Toosi University of Technology, from 2009 to 2012. During his Ph.D., he also had a four-month visiting scholarship with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in 2008 where he was focused on novel computational techniques for solving time-domain inverse scattering problems. His current research interests include high-power microwaves, low-temperature plasmas, reconfigurable RF nanotechnology, tunable antenna elements and arrays, and inverse scattering. Dr. Semnani was a recipient of the 2019 MTT-S Tatsuo Itoh award for the IEEE MWCL best paper of the year. He is currently an IEEE senior member and serves as a reviewer for many journals and conferences in both plasma physics and microwave communities. Awards The IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters (MWCL) Tatsuo Itoh Awardfor the paper entitled: An Electronically Tunable High-Power Impedance Tuner with Integrated Closed-Loop Control, 2019. European Microwave Weeks (EuMW) student travel awards, 2007 and 2010. Publications See recent publications here. 2020 THE UNIVERSITY OF TOLEDO 2801 W. Bancroft St. Toledo, OH 43606 800.586.5336 A - Z List | Careers | Report a Concern | Nondiscrimination | Accessibility | Web Privacy | Brand Guide | Feedback | Contact Us Last Updated: 9/26/19
