Department of Civil Engineering (BTech and Mtech in Civil Engineering) at MAHE Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Civil Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering MIT Department of Civil Engineering Overview The Civil Engineering Department, founded in 1957, is the first branch to be set up at MIT. It has become a centre of excellence in the Civil Engineering field over the years. The programs offered under its umbrella are B. Tech Civil Engineering, M.Tech in Structural Engineering, M.Tech in Construction Engineering and Management, M.Tech in Environmental Engineering, and Ph.D. The department is committed to educating the students in the field of Civil Engineering, with professional skills and ethical values through the holistic teaching-learning process and prepare the students to face the societal challenges and to meet the needs of the stakeholders The course imparts knowledge in the areas of Building Technology, Fluid Mechanics, Environmental Engineering, Structural Engineering, Water Resources Engineering, Surveying, Geotechnical Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Geoinformatics, and so forth. The program offers these benefits: The well-equipped Civil Engineering laboratories with state of the art facilities - KEF Infra, housing instruments such as 500 tonnage capacity loading frame, pre-stressing unit, flexural fatigue testing unit, thermal conductivity testing unit, modern equipment for investigating concrete characterstics. Softwares such as Staad Pro, Etabs, Building Information Modelling. Instrumentation for water quality assessment and wastewater characterization, soil characterization, and EDM and Total Station for surveying. Well planned and designed curriculum. Alongside core subjects, students can opt for program electives and open electives. Besides curriculum, industrial visits and internships are encouraged to provide student much needed practical exposure. Guest lectures by industry personal, entrepreneurs, and researchers in the field of Civil Engineering. PROGRAM EDUCTIONAL OBJECTIVE (PEO): PEO1 - Apply the principles of Science and Mathematics to provide solutions in Civil Engineering PEO2 - Plan, analyze, design, execute and manage Civil Engineering projects. PEO3 - Conduct field tests and experiments, interpret results and provide solutions. PEO4 -Apply modern engineering tools and software in civil engineering. PEO5 -Acquire specialized knowledge in various Civil Engineering streams through higher studies, carryout research and provide innovative solutions to meet the challenges in Civil Engineering. PEO6 -Demonstrate sensitivity towards ethical issues, environmental and social responsibilities; display effective communication skills, life-long learning and ability to work in teams. Program Outcomes (PO): The POs are exemplars of the attributes expected of a graduate of an accredited programme. PO1 - Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. PO2 - Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. PO3 -Design/Development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PO4 -Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions. PO5 -Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations. PO6 -The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. PO7 -Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. PO8 - Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice. PO9 -Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. PO10 -Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PO11 -Project management and Finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to ones own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. PO12 - Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change. PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSO): PSO1 -Graduates will demonstrate an ability to test the materials and interpret data to develop conventional and alternative engineering solutions. PSO2 -Graduateswill implement the basic knowledge to acquire specialization in civil engineering streams of structural engineering, geotechnical engineering, transportation engineering, environmental engineering, water resources engineering and construction management & building technology, as well as interdisciplinary areas. Career Opportunities Graduates can choose from industries like government and non-governemnt sectors, PSU's, construction and management, software, consulting , aerospace, research, etc. Graduates may pursue their Masters in varied fields such as Structural Engineering, Construction and Management, Environmental Engineering, Water Resourse Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, GIS, Non-destructive Testing, etc.. Graduates are placed in core industries such as L&T, Total Environment, etc and other industries such as TCE, Infosys, MU-Sigma, etc Outline - BTech Civil Engineering B.Tech Civil Engineering course outline 2018 (New) B.Tech Civil Engineering course outline 2014 (Old) Duration 4 Years (8 semesters). Faculty Dr.Jagadeesha B Pai Associate Professor Girish M G Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Dr.Udaya Shankara H N Professor Radhika Bhandary P Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Avinash AR Assistant Professor Senior Scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS The department has a strong research focus on soil stability and mechanics, environmental science and pollution abatement, concrete technology, environmental geochemistry, earthquake engineering and structural dynamics. Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
