Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Dept of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Overview The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering was established in 1960 and has fully equipped laboratories with meticulously planned layout and plenty of demonstration boards. Besides offering quality education to the students, the department offers consultancy services to industries. The key features of the department are, One of the largest departments at MIT Manipal and in existence for more than 50 years Best-in-class infrastructure and faculty profile Curriculum is designed to facilitate students in pursuing higher education in India and abroad Strong industry interface with leading companies like Schneider Electric, CISCO, etc. Placements offered by various core companies Active participation in consultancy, testing and research work VISION Excellence in Electrical & Electronics Engineering Education through innovative practices and team work MISSION To produce qualified, motivated and well-rounded graduates possessing fundamental knowledge of electrical and electronics engineering who can provide solutions and services to the community at large. To promote research & innovation, and to keep abreast of emerging technologies in electrical and electronics engineering in order to serve the needs of industry, scientific community, and society. PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES (PEO) PEO 1: Competent graduates who can apply the knowledge of electrical and electronics engineering to solve problems considering societal and environmental contexts. PEO 2: Engage in design of systems and applications using modern engineering tools in the field of electrical and electronics engineering and allied engineering domains. PEO 3: Graduates who can communicate well, work effectively in a team, exhibit high professional ethics and demonstrate leadership qualities. PEO 4: Engage in lifelong learning, career enhancement, pursuing higher education and research and adapt to changing professional and societal needs. PROGRAMME OUTCOMES (PO) PO 1: Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialisation to the solution of complex engineering problems. PO 2: Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, research literature, and analyse complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. PO 3: Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet t h e specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. PO 4: Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions. PO 5: Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modelling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations. PO 6: The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal, and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. PO 7: Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. PO 8: Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice. PO 9: Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. PO 10: Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. PO 11: Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to ones own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. PO 12: Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change. PROGRAMME SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSO) PSO 1: Apply the engineering knowledge to analyse and evaluate the components of power system, its operation, control and protection PSO 2: Model and Analyse linear and non-linear systems in both continuous and discrete domains PSO 3: Design and develop electronic circuits and systems for specified applications CORE COMPETENCIES Lighting & Energy Studies Power & Control Systems Power Electronics & Drives Micro-electronics & Embedded Systems. Outline - B.Tech Electrical & Electronics Engineering B. Tech in Electrical & Electronics Engineering course outline Duration 4 Years (8 semesters) Programs The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Electrical & Electronics Engineering M.Tech - Energy Systems & Management M.Tech - Power Electronics & Drives Faculty Ciji Pearl Kurian Professor Chandrashekara S. Adiga Professor & HoD Namratha Pai Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Siddaraj U. Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Savitha G. Kini Professor Gururaj Rao H. V. Assistant Professor - Selection Grade VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities E-News Letter Click the following link to view the half-yearly department e-newsletter: Vol 4, Issue 1: Jan-June 2020 Research & Publications The areas of research are Corrosion of Metals and Alloys Experimental Studies and Numerical Analysis by Soft Computing Tribology Tribotronics- Smart Bearings Computational Fluid Dynamics Solar Energy Application of Soft Computing Techniques to Tribology Tribology of Water Based Lubricated Bearings Composite Materials and Machinability Biomechanics Lean Manufacturing Biomaterials Non-Traditional Machining Material Characterisation and Improvement of Functional Properties Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
