Department of Humanities & Management - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Humanities & Management Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Humanities and Management Overview The Department of Humanities & Management, at Manipal Institute of Technology was established in May 2009. The department has two disciplines: Management and English. The department offers a Post Graduate Program (M Tech) in Engineering Management and also provides support to all other departments of the college for Management and English Subjects. The department and has expertise in system dynamics, modelling and simulation, organizational behaviour, econometrics and marketing, research methodology, linguistics, English literature and communication, German language and cultural studies. The Department plays a distinctive role inmoulding the careers of engineers, as the spirit of scientific inquiry and application of technology need to be coupled with human values. VISION Excellence in Engineering Management education through Innovation & Teamwork MISSION To educate the students in the fields of engineering management and humanities through holistic teaching-learning processes To prepare the students to face the societal challenges and meet the needs of the stake holders Highlights Expertise in Management Studies: Financial, Operational, Project Management, Marketing and Human Resources Diverse and complimentary faculty profile Unique/Innovative Pedagogy Most sought after and diverse Open Electives/Minor in Business Management Entrepreneurship opportunities through MUTBI Specialization in system dynamics, linguistics, cultural studies and language studies Our Values Discipline Integrity and Trust Holistic Learning Ethics and Professionalism Concern for Society and Environment Program The Department of Humanities and Management, MIT offers the following program: M.Tech. - Engineering Management Faculty Dr. Gopalakrishna B Professor and Head Dr. Lewlyn Lester Raj Rodrigus Professor Dr. Alapati Vittaleswar Professor Dr. Veena Maben Professor Dr. Srinivasa Rao Potti Associate Professor - Senior Scale Dr. James M J Associate Professor-Senior Scale Dr. Tungesh G M Associate Professor Senior Scale Dr. Sriram K V Associate Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications The areas of research of the department are system dynamics, knowledge management, human resource, learning organisation, English language teaching, linguistics, cultural studies, marketing, organisational behaviour and financial management. Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
