Department of Chemical Engineering - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Chemical Engineering Overview The Department of Chemical Engineering started in 1969 with BTech program in Chemical Engineering. Our department offers MTech since 2009 and Ph.D program in Chemical Engineering since 2000. The BTech program builds on the core elements of heat, mass and momentum transfer, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, transport processes, control process, with a hands on experience in state of the art laboratories. Various electives and minor specialization in petroleum engineering and pollution control engineering, prepare students for industries or higher studies. The MTech course emphasis on the advanced courses with main focus on research project. This provides an excellent platform to prepare the next generation research scholars. The Ph.D program indeed offers inter and multidisciplinary research to address socio-economic and industrial problems. Our high student-faculty ratio facilities high quality teaching, project and research guidance to students with great care. We are very proud to announce that last year (2019) we celebrated our Golden Jubilee year of establishment of Chemical Engineering Department. Vision To be the department that fosters excellence in education, research and innovation in Chemical Engineering and emerging inter disciplinary fields. Mission To provide quality education that prepares the graduates for leading roles in their chosen career and life-long learning. To develop technology through excellence in research, in conjunction with the technical education that is recognized by the peers in profession in the emerging fields of Chemical, Biochemical, Energy, Environmental engineering, and Material Science. To achieve technical excellence through industry-institute interactions. To produce graduates who are able to perform in multi-disciplinary teams and demonstrate superior team leadership. KEY FEATURES One of the oldest departments in Manipal Institute of Technology, imparting quality education for over 40 years Fully functional computer lab with core software like Aspen, Matlab, AutoCAD, etc. Basic undergraduate laboratories as well as research oriented laboratories Chemignite a national level symposium is conducted every year by the student chapter of Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers Placements offered by Core, IT and ITES companies. COLLABORATIONS The department has an MOU with University of Nottingham and University of South Alabama for post graduate studies. CORE COMPETENCIES Nanotechnology Bioadsorption Drug Delivery Solar Energy Harvesting. Programs The Department of Chemical Engineering, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Chemical Engineering M.Tech - Chemical Engineering Faculty Dr.Harish Kumar S Professor Dr.S V S R Krishna Bandaru Professor & Head Dr.Srinivas Kini Professor Dr. Balakrishna Prabhu K Professor Dr.Harshini Dasari Associate Professor Mr. Sriprasad Acharya Assistant Professor - Senior Scale VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
