Department of Biotechnology - MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Biotechnology Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Biotechnology OVERVIEW The Department of Biotechnology was established in 2005 to impart quality education in the field of biotechnology. VISION Excellence in teaching-learning process and research MISSION To impart and disseminate knowledge, develop competencies and to produce industry-ready and academically enriched engineers for the emerging areas of applied biotechnology KEY FEATURES State-of-the-art laboratories Department with highest Ph.D.-qualified faculty Dynamic curriculum with right mix of biological sciences and engineering Research-driven opportunities in Institutions in India/abroad Ongoing funded research from state as well as central government agencies Wide range of program and open electives Opportunity for students to carry out inter-disciplinary research projects across Medical, Pharma, Life Sciences, Engineering, Bioprocess, etc. Workshops, Guest Lectures and conferences on a regular basis A National-level annual technical symposium "SymBiot" by the Institute of Engineers Biotechnology (IEBt) student club CORE COMPETENCIES Bioinformatics Bio nanotechnology Biopolymers Bioreactor Design Drug Delivery Environmental Biotechnology Fermentation Engineering Microfluidics Modelling & Simulation of Bioprocess Photo-bioremediation Phytochemicals Plant & Animal Cell Culture E-Newsletter "Bio-TransMiT" Volume-2 2020 Volume-1 2019 Programs The Department of Biotechnology, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Biotechnology M.Tech - Industrial Biotechnology Faculty Dr. Ramananda Bhat M Professor & HOD Dr. Ramachandra Murthy V Professor Dr.Bharath Raja Guru Professor Dr. Balaji S Associate Professor - Senior VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications The areas of research are drug delivery, nanomaterials, bioinformatics, separation and purification of biomolecules, production of industrially important enzymes, bioremediation, bioprocess development, bio-separation processes and nanobiotechnology. The students get an opportunity to work in these leading areas of research. They obtain hands-on work experience in using the hi-end equipment in laboratories, as well as the latest modelling and simulation tools. Research Grants: 1. "Production of polyhydroxyalkanoate Copolymers from Bacillus species using oil refinery waste" by Dr. Divyashree M.S from DBT for 34.99 lakhs (3 years, On going) 2. "Foldscope as a research tool to assess the adherence of phytase-producing probiotic bacteria on the intestinal epithelium" by Dr. S. Balaji from DBT for 8 lakhs (1 year) 3 Detection of Candida albicans pathogenic dual switching using Paper-based Analytical Devices (PADS for Candida) Ms. Anusha Prabhu VGST National Government 5 lakhs October 2017 5 lakhs 4 PADS: Engineering miniaturized devices for POC diagnosis of Candida Dr. Naresh Kumar Mani Manipal-McGill Centre National Non-Government 2 lakhs November 2017 2 lakhs 5 Exploring the immunomodulatory properties of chitosan derivatives Dr. Ritu Raval MACID Private Non-Government 2 lakhs November 2017 2 lakhs 6 Centre for Interactive Biomolecular 3D- literacy(C-In-3D) Dr. S. Balaji VGST National State Govt. 30 lakhs 3 Years from Nov. 2017 10 lakhs On going 7 Development of PAPER-based platforms for Point-of-care(POC) Nucleic Acid Testing of Candidiasis[PAPER at Point-of-Care] Dr. Naresh Kumar Mani VGST National State Govt. 5 lakhs 1 Year from 2017 5 lakhs On going Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
