Department of Information & Communication Technology MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Applications Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Information & Communication Technology Overview The department of Information and Communication Technology has developed into a centre for excellence, providing opportunities for innovation and research, with well-equipped computer laboratories and dedicated faculty. The department takes great pride in preparing the students for the industrial demands of software and hardware sectors. Students are also trained in software development tools. The department offers B.Tech (Information Technology, Computer and Communication Engineering), M.Tech (Software Engineering, Computer Networking & Engineering) and PhD programs. VISION "Excellence in Information and Communication Technology education through continuous learning and teamwork" MISSION "To provide expertise in planning, designing, implementing and deploying IT infrastructure, to realize information systems aiming at providing solutions to societal requirements, and to promote quality education and research." Core competencies Image Processing Software Design, Implementation and Testing Data Communication Networking Data Mining and Warehousing Collaborations Department has tie-up with CISCO for a certification course MOU with ISEP Paris, France MOU with University of Eindhoven, Netherlands. Click here for the Newsletter 'ICT chronicle 2020' Click here for the Newsletter 'ICT chronicle 2019' Programs The Department of Information and Communication Technology, MIT offers the following programs: B.Tech - Information Technology B.Tech - Computer and Communication Engineering M.Tech - Software Engineering M.Tech - Computer Networking and Engineering Faculty Dr. Balachandra Professor & Head Dr. Manohara M M Pai Professor Dr. Radhika M Pai Professor Dr. Sanjay Singh Professor Dr. Poornalatha G Associate Professor - Senior Scale Dr. Preetham Kumar Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Libraries have excellent resources for reference and study MUTBI Paper tree - A green initiative by MIT students of MUTBI Computing Facility Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications The areas of research of the department are signal and image processing, analogue and digital vlsi, mems and nanotechnology, wireless and fibre optical communication, embedded system design and application and information theory and coding. The department has a well-equipped research lab to encourage and promote research activities. Academic Research View All Testimonials For me MAHE is a place with ample opportunities to grow professionally and personally. Ashna Ranjan MIT Manipal Learning is an awesome experience at Manipal. This is the best place to be for students. Rudi Rajkumar MIT Manipal MAHE is giving us wings to fly and providing us with resources necessary to make it big in life. Shashank Tulsyan MIT Manipal MAHE has taught me the value of organisation and to be systematic in all my work. Siddharth Bhasin MIT Manipal My experience at MIT has been great from the beginning. N.J.Nischal MIT Im glad I choose Manipal University. Chaitanya Chauhan Mechanical Engineering About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
