Department of Computer Applications MIT | Manipal Academy of Higher Education Skip to main content Login hub Alumni Portal Student Portal Campus Email e-Prints Information for Current Students Parents Alumini Careers APPLY Manipal Institute of Technology Manipal Institute of Technology STUDY Programs Programs BTech - Bachelor of Technology MTech - Masters of Technology Master of Computer Applications Admissions Admissions How to Apply Indian Students International Students DASA 2020 Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aids Frequently Asked Questions Show More Explore MIT Explore MIT Why MIT Placements Overview Industry Partnerships Student Exchange Program MIT Collaborations Semester Abroad Program Education Loan, Scholarships Portal Show More DISCOVER About Us About Us Overview Administration Leadership Message From The Director Vision & Mission Ranking Recognitions & Accreditations NIRF NAAC Mandatory Disclosure Campus Life Campus Life Experience Manipal Students Library Innovation Centre MUTBI Student Clubs Student Life Cycle Management (slcm) System Show More Practice school Videos Year book Department & Faculty Department & Faculty Department & Faculty List RESEARCH Research Research Research Impact Research List Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) Dept & Faculty Department List Department of Computer Applications Department of Aeronautical & Automobile Engineering Department of Biomedical Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Chemistry Department of Civil Engineering Department of Computer Science & Engineering Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering Department of Humanities & Management Department of Information & Communication Technology Department of Instrumentation & Control Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mechanical & Manufacturing Engineering Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Physics Department of Media Technology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Department of Biotechnology Department of Mechatronics Engineering Request for Info I authorize MAHE Manipal to contact me with updates & notifications via Email, SMS & WhatsApp . This will override registry on DND / NDNC. MIT Department of Computer Applications Overview The Department of Computer Applications prepares students to design, develop and implement software applications. The academic curriculum helps students develop technical, managerial and soft skills for careers in the IT industry. Key features Enhances learning experience with practical experience through internships, mini projects and practice school project work. Core competencies Software Engineering and Application development Data and knowledge discovery Multimedia Computing and Communication Computer Vision. Collaborations The department has an MOU with Athlone Institute of Technology, Ireland for research collaboration and student exchange. It is also a part of IAESTE for MCA students. Programs The Department of Computer Applications, MIT offers the following programs: MCA - Master of Computer Applications Faculty Dr.Karunakar Kotegar A Professor & Head Dr.Hareesha K S Professor Dr. Poornima Panduranga Kundapur Associate Professor Dr. Rohini R Rao Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Tojo Thomas Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Archana H Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Mr.Akshay Bhat Assistant Professor Linda Varghese Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Vinayak M Assistant Professor-Senior Scale Nirmal Kumar Nigam Assistant Professor - Senior Scale Dr. Manjunath Vishweshwar Hegde Assistant Professor Dr. Raghurama Holla Assistant Professor Dr. Sandhya Parasnath Dubey Assistant Professor VIEW ALL Facilities Laboratories World-class laboratories give learning a practical dimension Innovation Centre State-of-the-art Innovation Centre to facilitate multi-disciplinary research Libraries Includes resources for reference and study Class rooms AC classrooms fitted with LCD and audio-visual equipment Research Laboratory Wi-fi campus with modern computing and digital facilities Research & Publications In addition to their regular teaching work, the faculty members are actively involved in research works in various areas like data mining, network security, video coding and knowledge engineering, multimedia computing and communication, computer vision & machine learning and natural language processing. Academic Research View All Student Testimonials Manipal has the perfect blend of education and extra-curriculum activities. Living with people across different nations, culture and religion, this seamless structure makes it very easy for us to develop our inter-personal skills thereby helping us throughout our professional as well as private life. I have spent the most cherish-able and the best three years of my life at Manipal! Susmita Das Manipal has played a transformational role in our lives. It began the moment we set foot on campus, and it continues to shape who we are today. I grew as an individual, learning to interact and talk to people from different backgrounds. I enjoyed the caring and friendly environment at MIT. My experience at MIT has meant career advancement to a highly responsible and technically challenging position in a leading-edge software company. Along with that goes an increased sense of self-esteem and a feeling of accomplishment and personal satisfaction. Anil Krishna Kamath MIT Manipal I love studying at Manipal University because is it one of the best and leading University providing quality education and industrial experience. It also gives exposure to get together with people who come all over the World. It really is the best thing that has ever happened to me. Karan Gathani The facility is so good that it Motivates me to put in my best, The faculty is so well qualified that they Inspire me to work hard, The curriculum is so well set that it makes me Thorough with the subjects. Saasha Nair About Us About Us Leadership Administration Rankings Accreditations & Affiliations MIT Experience Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses BTech Mechanical Engineering Civil Engineering Information Technology Computer Science Chemical Engineering Biomedical Engineering Electronics and Communication Engineering Post Graduate Courses Post Graduate Courses MSc MSc Chemistry MCA MTech Aerospace Engineering Software Engineering Environmental Engineering Structural Engineering Important Links Important Links Program List Admissions Placements Department and Faculty list Scholarships FAQs Apply for admissions Download prospectus Menu Newsletter Signup SUBSCRIBE
