Faculty Directory | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Search Our Site About Us Programs Faculty & Research Alumni Recruiters & Companies NewsNews Campuses Intranet Give Apply Coronavirus Updates We want to demonstrate our commitment to your privacy. In support of the changes to the EU data protection law, weve updated our privacy notice effective May 25, 2018. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA Master of Arts in South Asian Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Chicago Booth Review Selected Papers Series Journals Research Workshops Faculty Openings Alumni Companies Hire Students Recruiting Tools Building a Recruiting Strategy Host or Attend an Event Interview Booth Students Work with Student Groups Conference Facilities Gleacher Center Access Booth Expertise Research and Learning Centers Experiential Learning Faculty Research Conferences and Other Events Hire Alumni and Executive MBAs Recruit Alumni Recruit Executive MBAs Invest in Booth Research and Learning Centers Faculty Research Student Support Focus on Your Industry Develop Talent Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Companies Events Admissions Faculty & Research HomeFaculty & ResearchFaculty Directory Faculty DirectoryEmeriti Faculty DirectoryNobel LaureatesResearch and Learning CentersChicago Booth ReviewFaculty Photo DirectorySelected Papers SeriesJournalsResearch WorkshopsResearch StaffFaculty Openings Share This Page Faculty Search Name Academic Area Select One Accounting Behavioral Science Business Economics Econometrics Econometrics and Statistics Entrepreneurship Financial Management Human Resource Management Interdisciplinary International Business Macro/International Business Marketing Management Microeconomics Operations Management Organizations and Markets Statistics Strategic Management Name Title A Rodrigo Adao Assistant Professor of Economics Dan Adelman Charles I. Clough, Jr. Professor of Operations Management Mark Agnew Adjunct Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship Michael D. Alter Clinical Professor of Entrepreneurship Robert Altman Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship Bryon Aragam Assistant Professor of Econometrics and Statistics and Robert H. Topel Faculty Scholar Baris Ata Chookaszian Family Professor of Operations Management B Ray Ball Sidney Davidson Distinguished Service Professor of Accounting Brian Barry Clinical Professor of Economics Daniel Bartels Professor of Marketing Terrence M. Belton Adjunct Professor of Finance Philip G. Berger Wallman Family Professor of Accounting Marianne Bertrand Chris P. Dialynas Distinguished Service Professor of Economics and Willard Graham Faculty Scholar Raghu Betina Clinical Assistant Professor of Operations Management and Entrepreneurship Ayan Bhattacharya Visiting Assistant Professor of Finance John R. Birge Hobart W. Williams Distinguished Service Professor of Operations Jason R. Blumberg Adjunct Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship Jonathan Bonham Assistant Professor of Accounting Laura M. Born Adjunct Professor of Finance Eric Budish Steven G. Rothmeier Professor of Economics and Centel Foundation/Robert P. Reuss Faculty Scholar Gregory D. Bunch Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship Ronald S. Burt Charles M. Harper Leadership Professor of Sociology and Strategy C Rene Caldentey Eli B. and Harriet B. Williams Professor of Operations Management Ozan Candogan Associate Professor of Operations Management Dennis W. Carlton David McDaniel Keller Professor of Economics Christine Carpenter Adjunct Assistant Professor of Leadership Carlos M. Carvalho Visiting Professor of Econometrics and Statistics Shereen Chaudhry Assistant Professor of Behavioral Science and Neubauer Family Faculty Fellow Alex Chinco Adjunct Assistant Professor of Finance Pradeep K. Chintagunta Joseph T. and Bernice S. Lewis Distinguished Service Professor of Marketing Dennis H. Chookaszian Adjunct Professor of Strategic Management Hans B. Christensen Professor of Accounting and David G. Booth Faculty Fellow Chris Collins Adjunct Assistant Professor of Leadership Emanuele Colonnelli Assistant Professor of Finance; Liew Family Junior Faculty Fellow and Fama Faculty Fellow Giovanni Compiani Assistant Professor of Marketing George M. Constantinides Leo Melamed Professor of Finance Thomas Covert Assistant Professor of Economics and Robert H. Topel Faculty Scholar Keith Crandell Adjunct Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship D Harry L. Davis Roger L. and Rachel M. Goetz Distinguished Service Professor of Creative Management Steven J. Davis William H. Abbott Distinguished Service Professor of International Business and Economics Joshua Dean Assistant Professor of Behavioral Science and Economics Nicole DeHoratius Adjunct Professor of Operations Management Waverly Deutsch Clinical Professor and Academic Director of University-wide Entrepreneurship Content Levi DeValve Assistant Professor of Operations Management Sanjay K. Dhar James H. Lorie Professor of Marketing Douglas W. Diamond Merton H. Miller Distinguished Service Professor of Finance Berkeley J. Dietvorst Associate Professor of Marketing Jonathan Dingel Associate Professor of Economics and James S. Kemper Foundation Faculty Scholar Rebecca Dizon-Ross Associate Professor of Economics and Charles E. Merrill Faculty Scholar Wenxin Du Associate Professor of Finance and Fama Faculty Fellow Jean-Pierre Dub Sigmund E. Edelstone Professor of Marketing and Charles E. Merrill Faculty Scholar E Donald D. Eisenstein Professor of Operations Management Nicholas Epley John Templeton Keller Professor of Behavioral Science and Neubauer Family Faculty Fellow Merle Erickson Professor of Accounting F Eugene F. Fama Robert R. McCormick Distinguished Service Professor of Finance Max Farrell Associate Professor of Econometrics and Statistics Ayelet Fishbach Jeffrey Breakenridge Keller Professor of Behavioral Science and Marketing and IBM Corporation Faculty Scholar Kathleen Fitzgerald Adjunct Associate Professor of Strategic Management Margaret Fleetwood Adjunct Assistant Professor of Entrepreneurship Alexander P. Frankel Professor of Economics G Celia Gaertig Assistant Professor of Marketing and Beatrice Foods Co. Faculty Scholar John Gallemore Associate Professor of Accounting and Charles E. Merrill Faculty Scholar Luis Garicano Visiting Professor of Economics Robert H. Gertner Joel F. Gemunder Professor of Strategy and Finance; John Edwardson Faculty Director Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation Michael Gibbs Clinical Professor of Economics Zvi Gilula Visiting Professor of Statistics Linda E. Ginzel Clinical Professor of Managerial Psychology Austan D. Goolsbee Robert P. Gwinn Professor of Economics Niels Gormsen Neubauer Family Assistant Professor of Finance and Asness Junior Faculty Fellow Joao Granja Associate Professor of Accounting and Jane and Basil Vasiliou Faculty Scholar Caroline Grossman Adjunct Assistant Professor of Strategy; Executive Director, Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation Veronica Guerrieri Ronald E. Tarrson Professor of Economics and Willard Graham Faculty Scholar Varun Gupta Associate Professor of Operations Management H Christina Hachikian Clinical Associate Professor of Strategic Management Charles J. Hadlock Visiting Professor of Finance Tom Hafen Adjunct Professor of Marketing John Hand Visiting Professor of Accounting Christian B. Hansen Wallace W. Booth Professor of Econometrics and Statistics Lars Peter Hansen David Rockefeller Distinguished Service Professor The University of Chicago Departments of Economics, Statistics and the Booth School of Business Samuel Hartzmark Associate Professor of Finance and Fujimori/Mou Faculty Scholar Reid Hastie Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Behavioral Science Zhiguo He Fuji Bank and Heller Professor of Finance and Jeuck Faculty Fellow John C. Heaton Joseph L. Gidwitz Professor of Finance Jason M. Heltzer Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship Wendy Heltzer Visiting Associate Professor of Accounting Gnter J. Hitsch Kilts Family Professor of Marketing Richard Hornbeck V. Duane Rath Professor of Economics and Neubauer Family Faculty Fellow Christopher K. Hsee Theodore O. Yntema Professor of Behavioral Science and Marketing Chang-Tai Hsieh Phyllis and Irwin Winkelried Professor of Economics and PCL Faculty Scholar Kilian Huber Assistant Professor of Economics John Huizinga Walter David "Bud" Fackler Distinguished Service Professor of Economics Erik Hurst Frank P. and Marianne R. Diassi Distinguished Service Professor of Economics; Deputy Director of the Becker Friedman Institute, and John E. Jeuck Faculty Fellow I Alex Imas Assistant Professor of Behavioral Science and Economics Mary Ittelson Adjunct Assistant Professor of Strategy J Jessica S. Jeffers Assistant Professor of Finance K Tetsuya Kaji Assistant Professor of Econometrics and Statistics; Liew Family Junior Faculty Fellow and Richard N. Rosett Faculty Fellow Emir Kamenica Richard O. Ryan Professor of Economics and Neubauer Family Faculty Fellow Steven Neil Kaplan Neubauer Family Distinguished Service Professor of Entrepreneurship and Finance and Kessenich E.P. Faculty Director at the Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation Anil Kashyap Stevens Distinguished Service Professor of Economics and Finance Lara Kattan Adjunct Assistant Professor of Statistics Rohan Kekre Assistant Professor of Economics Elisabeth Kempf Associate Professor of Finance Marc Knez Clinical Professor of Strategic Management Alex Koch Assistant Professor of Behavioral Science and Asness Junior Faculty Fellow Ralph S.J. Koijen AQR Capital Management Professor of Finance and Fama Faculty Fellow Mladen Kolar Associate Professor of Econometrics and Statistics Stacey Kole Clinical Professor of Economics Christopher E. Krohn Adjunct Associate Professor of Marketing Randall S. Kroszner Deputy Dean for Executive Programs and Norman R. Bobins Professor of Economics L Jacob Leshno Assistant Professor of Economics and Robert H. Topel Faculty Scholar Christian Leuz Joseph Sondheimer Professor of International Economics, Finance and Accounting Emma Levine Associate Professor of Behavioral Science and Charles E. Merrill Faculty Scholar Tengyuan Liang Assistant Professor of Econometrics and Statistics and George C. Tiao Faculty Fellow Haihao (Sean) Lu Assistant Professor of Operations Management Lindsey Lyman Clinical Assistant Professor of Entrepreneurship M Yueran Ma Assistant Professor of Finance and Liew Family Junior Faculty Fellow Mark G. Maffett Associate Professor of Accounting Starr Marcello Deputy Dean for MBA Programs Anthony M. Marciano Visiting Clinical Professor of Finance Sonia Marciano Visiting Clinical Professor of Strategic Management Andrew McClellan Assistant Professor of Economics and Liew Family Junior Faculty Fellow Charles McClure Assistant Professor of Accounting and Liew Family Junior Faculty Fellow Ann L. McGill Sears Roebuck Professor of General Management, Marketing and Behavioral Science Christopher McGowan Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship John J. McKinney Adjunct Associate Professor of Marketing Scott F. Meadow Clinical Professor of Entrepreneurship Arthur Middlebrooks Clinical Professor of Marketing; Executive Director, Kilts Center for Marketing Michael Minnis Professor of Accounting and Charles E. Merrill Faculty Scholar Sanjog Misra Charles H. Kellstadt Professor of Marketing Mark L. Mitchell Adjunct Professor of Finance Lil Mohan Adjunct Assistant Professor of Marketing Stephen Morrissette Visiting Professor of Business Administration Sarah Moshary Assistant Professor of Marketing Jack Mountjoy Assistant Professor of Economics and Robert H. Topel Faculty Scholar Maximilian Muhn Assistant Professor of Accounting Sendhil Mullainathan Roman Family University Professor of Computation and Behavioral Science Kevin M. Murphy George J. Stigler Distinguished Service Professor of Economics N Stefan Nagel Fama Family Professor of Finance Brent Neiman Edward Eagle Brown Professor of Economics and William Ladany Faculty Scholar Scott Nelson Assistant Professor of Finance Rad Niazadeh Assistant Professor of Operations Management Valeri Nikolaev Professor of Accounting and FMC Faculty Scholar Pascal Noel Neubauer Family Assistant Professor of Finance and Kathryn and Grant Swick Faculty Scholar Matthew J. Notowidigdo Professor of Economics A. David Nussbaum Adjunct Associate Professor of Behavioral Science O Ed O'Brien Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Brian O'Connor Adjunct Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship Christopher Sola Olopade Professor of Medicine Olufunmilayo I Olopade Walter L. Palmer Distinguished Service Professor of Medicine and Human Genetics P Joseph L. Pagliari Clinical Professor of Real Estate Priya Parrish Adjunct Assistant Professor of Strategy Lubos Pastor Charles P. McQuaid Professor of Finance and Robert King Steel Faculty Fellow Christina Patterson Assistant Professor of Economics and Biehler Junior Faculty Fellow Randal C. Picker James Parker Hall Distinguished Service Professor of Law Joshua R. Pierce Visiting Professor of Banking David Pogrund Adjunct Associate Professor of Economics Nicholas Polson Robert Law, Jr. Professor of Econometrics and Statistics Devin G. Pope Professor of Behavioral Science and Economics Canice Prendergast W. Allen Wallis Distinguished Service Professor of Economics Darryl Pure Adjunct Assistant Professor of Leadership R Madhav Rajan Dean and George Pratt Shultz Professor of Accounting Raghuram G. Rajan Katherine Dusak Miller Distinguished Service Professor of Finance Anita Rao Associate Professor of Marketing Alyssa Rapp Adjunct Assistant Professor of Entrepreneurship Daniel Rappoport Assistant Professor of Economics and Asness Junior Faculty Fellow Thomas Rauter Assistant Professor of Accounting; Asness Junior Faculty Fellow and IBM Corporation Faculty Scholar Amoray Riggs-Cragun Assistant Professor of Accounting Jane L. Risen Professor of Behavioral Science and John E. Jeuck Faculty Fellow Stephen Ritchie Adjunct Assistant Professor of Entrepreneurship Veronika Rockova Associate Professor of Econometrics and Statistics, and James S. Kemper Foundation Faculty Scholar John Paul Rollert Adjunct Assistant Professor of Behavioral Science Guy Rolnik Clinical Professor of Strategic Management Jeffrey R. Russell Alper Family Professor of Econometrics and Statistics S Delphine Samuels Assistant Professor of Accounting Burhaneddin Sandiki Associate Professor of Operations Management Haresh Sapra Charles T. Horngren Professor of Accounting Heather Sarsons Neubauer Assistant Professor of Economics and Diane Swonk Faculty Fellow James E. Schrager Clinical Professor of Entrepreneurship and Strategic Management Jay Schrankler Adjunct Assistant Professor of Entrepreneurship Anuj K. Shah Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Bradley Shapiro Associate Professor of Marketing and True North Faculty Scholar Amanda J. Sharkey Associate Professor of Organizations and Strategy Yoad Shefi Adjunct Associate Professor of Economics and Strategy Sandra Shelton Visiting Professor of Accounting and Behavioral Science Hyoduk Shin Visiting Associate Professor of Operations Ram Shivakumar Adjunct Professor of Economics and Strategy Douglas J. Skinner Deputy Dean for Faculty and Eric J. Gleacher Distinguished Service Professor of Accounting Ekaterina (Katja) Smetanina Assistant Professor of Econometrics and Statistics and Asness Junior Faculty Fellow Abbie J. Smith Boris and Irene Stern Distinguished Service Professor of Accounting Leonard C. Soffer Clinical Professor of Accounting Vadim Sokolov Visiting Assistant Professor of Statistics Lisa Stefanac Adjunct Assistant Professor of Leadership Christopher Stewart Assistant Professor of Accounting Lars Stole David W. Johnson Professor of Economics Per Stromberg Adjunct Professor of Finance Avner Strulov-Shlain Assistant Professor of Marketing Amir Sufi Bruce Lindsay Professor of Economics and Public Policy Abigail Sussman Associate Professor of Marketing and True North Communications, Inc. Faculty Scholar Chad Syverson George C. Tiao Distinguished Service Professor of Economics T Thomas Talhelm Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Mark Tebbe Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship Nancy Tennant Adjunct Professor of Leadership Craig A. Terrill Adjunct Associate Professor of Entrepreneurship Richard H. Thaler Charles R. Walgreen Distinguished Service Professor of Behavioral Science and Economics Alexander Todorov Professor of Behavioral Science and Rosett Faculty Fellow Rimmy Tomy Associate Professor of Accounting Robert H. Topel Isidore Brown and Gladys J. Brown Distinguished Service Professor of Economics Panagiotis (Panos) Toulis Assistant Professor of Econometrics and Statistics, and John E. Jeuck Faculty Fellow Ruey S. Tsay H.G.B. Alexander Professor of Econometrics and Statistics U Oleg Urminsky Professor of Marketing V Joseph S. Vavra Professor of Economics Theo Vermaelen Visiting Professor of Finance Pietro Veronesi Deputy Dean for Faculty and Chicago Board of Trade Professor of Finance Robert W. Vishny Myron S. Scholes Distinguished Service Professor of Finance and Neubauer Faculty Director of the Davis Center Richard Volden Adjunct Assistant Professor of Leadership W Xikuan Wang Adjunct Assistant Professor of Statistics Amy Ward Rothman Family Professor of Operations Management and Charles M. Harper Faculty Fellow Michael Weber Associate Professor of Finance and Fama Faculty Fellow Ira S. Weiss Clinical Professor of Accounting and Entrepreneurship Hal Weitzman Adjunct Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Rebecca White Adjunct Assistant Professor of Behavioral Science Thomas Winberry Associate Professor of Economics Bernd Wittenbrink Robert S. Hamada Professor of Behavioral Science Thomas Wollmann Associate Professor of Economics George Wu John P. and Lillian A. Gould Professor of Behavioral Science X Linwei Xin Assistant Professor of Operations Management Dacheng Xiu Professor of Econometrics and Statistics Y Constantine Yannelis Assistant Professor of Finance and FMC Faculty Scholar Z Anastasia A. Zakolyukina Associate Professor of Accounting and William Ladany Faculty Scholar Anthony Lee Zhang Assistant Professor of Finance Yuan Zhong Associate Professor of Operations Management Elena Zinchenko Adjunct Associate Professor of Behavioral Science Luigi Zingales Robert C. McCormack Distinguished Service Professor of Entrepreneurship and Finance Mark E. Zmijewski Charles T. Horngren Professor of Accounting Emeritus Eric Zwick Associate Professor of Finance and Fama Faculty Fellow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Recruiters & Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth News Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review ApplyGiveCampuses Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042020 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
