Selected Papers Series | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Search Our Site About Us Programs Faculty & Research Alumni Recruiters & Companies NewsNews Campuses Intranet Give Apply Coronavirus Updates We want to demonstrate our commitment to your privacy. In support of the changes to the EU data protection law, weve updated our privacy notice effective May 25, 2018. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA Master of Arts in South Asian Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Chicago Booth Review Selected Papers Series Journals Research Workshops Faculty Openings Alumni Companies Hire Students Recruiting Tools Building a Recruiting Strategy Host or Attend an Event Interview Booth Students Work with Student Groups Conference Facilities Gleacher Center Access Booth Expertise Research and Learning Centers Experiential Learning Faculty Research Conferences and Other Events Hire Alumni and Executive MBAs Recruit Alumni Recruit Executive MBAs Invest in Booth Research and Learning Centers Faculty Research Student Support Focus on Your Industry Develop Talent Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Companies Events Admissions Faculty & Research HomeFaculty & ResearchSelected Papers Series Faculty DirectoryEmeriti Faculty DirectoryNobel LaureatesResearch and Learning CentersChicago Booth ReviewFaculty Photo DirectorySelected Papers SeriesJournalsResearch WorkshopsResearch StaffFaculty Openings Share This Page Selected Papers Series The Selected Papers series is published in grateful recognition of those alumni and friends who support the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. The long-running series features current, notable research of note by Chicago faculty. In March 2004, the Selected Papers series was combined with Capital Ideas, a publication that features topical research in a chosen business discipline. Please see theCapital Ideas websitefor the latest issues. Note: papers are posted here in .pdf format. To view and print them, you will need the free Adobe Acrobat Reader software. 86 "Are CEOs Rewarded for Luck? The Ones without Principals Are"by Marianne Bertrand 85 "Home Bias at Home: Local Equity Preference in Domestic Portfolios" by Tobias Moscowitz and Joshua D. Coval 84 "Value Investing: The Use of Historical Financial Statement Information to Separate Winners from Losers" by Joseph D. Piotroski 83 "Syndication Networks and the Spatial Distribution of Venture Capital Investments" by Olav Sorenson and Toby E. Stuart 82 "Can Advertising Copy Make FSI Coupons More Effective?" by France Leclerc and John D.C. Little 81 "Interest Group Competition and the Organization of Congress" by Randall S. Kroszner and Thomas Stratmann 80 "The Gender of Social Capital" by Ronald Burt 79 "What Happens When You Tax the Rich?" by Austan Goolsbee 78 "Why Store Brand Penetration Varies by Retailer" by Sanjay K. Dhar and Stephen J. Hoch 77 "Risk Taking by Mutual Funds as a Response to Incentives" by Judith Chevalier and Glen Ellison 76 "New Findings About Trends in Life Expectation and Chronic Diseases: The Implications for Health costs and Pensions" by Robert W. Fogel 75 "Do We Really Need More Regulation of Financial Derivatives?"by Merton H. Miller 74 "Doing Business in the Global Economy: Keynote Address at the 1993 Management Conference " by Livio D. DeSimone 73 "Using Personal Checklists to Facilitate Total Quality Management" by Harry V. Roberts 72 "Rethinking Management Education: A View from Chicago"by Harry L. Davis and Robin M. Hogarth 71 "The Quality Revolution and the Business School Response"by Harry V. Roberts 70 "Freedom and Leadership: Keynote Address at the 1990 Management Conference" by William Simon 69 "The Marketing Information Revolution: 1989 Towers/Cresap Lecture" by Robert C. Blattberg 68 "Enhancing Productivity through Compensation: 1988 Towers / Cresap Lecture" by Edward P. Lazear 67 "A Most Unusual Period in the Financial Services Industry: 1987 Towers Cresap Lecture" by James H. Lorie 66 "Rules of the Game Inside the Corporate Boardroom" by Thomas L. Whisler 65 "Quality and Productivity: Implications for Management" by Harry V. Roberts 64 "Pride and Prejudice: 1986 Towers/Cresap Lecture" by John E. Jeuck 63 "Financial Innovation: The Last Twenty Years and the Next" by Merton H. Miller 62 "Backward and Forward Thinking in Decision Making" by 61 "Deregulation: The Expected and the Unexpected" by Sam Peltzman 60 "Will the Dow Jones Get to 2,000 Before Gold gets to $1,000?" by Robert Z. Aliber 59 "Business Education in the United States" by Richard N. Rosett 58 "American Capitalism at High Noon" by George J. Stigler 57 "Do Dividends Really Matter?" by Merton H. Miller 56 "The Disciplining of Corporate Managers" by Eugene F. Fama 55 "Can Economics Contribute to Marketing Research?" by Henri Theill 54 "Capitalism: Two Aspects" by Henry Ford II 53 "Good General Managers are not Professional" by H. Edward Wrapp 52 "Statisticians Can Matter" by Harry V. Roberts 51 "The World Food Situation: Recent Developments and Prospects"by D. Gale Johnson 50 "The Adam Smith Papers" 50a "Adam Smiths View of Man" by R.H Coase 50b "Adam Smiths Relevance for 1976" by Milton Friedman 50c "The Successes and Failures of Professor Smith" by George J. Stigler 49 "The New International Economic Order" by Harry G. Johnson 48c "National Economic Policy in the 1970s" by John P. Gould 47 "Liberty, Leadership, and License" by Walter B. Wriston 46c "Signals and Confirmations of Economic Change" by Victor Zarnowitz 45 "Free Markets for Free Men" by Milton Friedman 44 "Some Constitutional Aspects of Watergate" by Philip B. Kurland 43 "The New Federalism at Work" by Donald T. Regan 42 "Health Services in the USSR" by Odin Anderson 4 "Promise and Performance in Economic Forecasting" by Victor Zarnowitz 40 "Management and the Stabilization Program" by Arnold R. Weber 39 "Modern Man and His Corporation" by George J. Stigler 38 "Executive Stress" by Dr. Robert S. Daniels 37 "The Businessmans Guide to Crime Control" by Norval R. Morris 36 "The Economics of Pollution" by Charles Upton 35 "The Care and Feeding of Econometric Models" by Arnold Zellner 34 "The Euro-Dollar Market: Some First Principles" by Milton Friedman 33 "Some Reflections on the Securities Markets" by Marshall D. Ketchum 32 "Competition, Efficiency, and Antitrust" by Yale Brozen 31 "The American Presence in Europe" by Jacques Dreze 30 "Race and Unemployment: Some Issues and Ideas" by George P. Shultz 29 "Are People Really Important in Business" by L. Richard Hoffman 28 "The Long View and the Short" by Walter Fackler 27 "Government and Advertising: The Heavy Hand of Benevolence" by James H. Lorie 26 "Good Managers Dont Make Policy Decisions" by H. Edward Wrapp 25 "The New Economics: Stabilizing Tax Policy" by Norman B. Ture 24 "The Meaning of Business Income: An International Comparison"by Sidney Davidson 23 "Mathematical Models for Financial Management" by Merton H. Miller and Daniel Orr 22 "Guidelines, Informal Controls, and the Market Place" by George P. Shultz and Robert Z. Aliber 21 "Labor Lessons: Notes from Europe" by Arnold R. Weber 20 "Current Controversies on the Stock Market" by James H. Lorie 19 "Marketing Policy: Another View of the Forest" by John E. Jeuck 18 "Automation and Jobs" by Yale Brozen 17 "America in the World Economy-The Decade Ahead" by Harry G. Johnson 16 Random Walks in Stock Market Prices" by Eugene F. Fama 15 "Forecasting Business Conditions: A Critical View" by Victor Zarnowitz 14 "The Innovative Organization" by Selwyn W. Becker 13 "The Tactics of Economic Reform" by George J. Stigler 12 "Federal Spending as an Economic Stabilizer" by Walter Fackler 11 "Education-Some Neglected Opportunities" by Theodore O. Yntema 10 "The Creative Organization" by Gary A. Steiner 9 "Executives and Their Jobs: The Changing Organizational Structure" by Thomas L. Whisler 8 "Strikes: the Private Stake and the Public Interest" by George Shultz 7 "The Proper Economic Role of the State" by George J. Stigler and Paul A. Samuelson 6 "The Two Faces of the Common Market" by Arthur A. Shenfield 5 "Executive Behavior" by Dr. C. Knight Aldrich, with an introduction by John E. Jeuck 4 "Retraining the Unemployed" by Arnold R. Weber 3 "The Intellectual and the Market Place" by George J. Stigler 2 "The Meaning of Depreciation" by Sidney Davidson 1 "Productivity, Wages, and Prices" by Albert Rees Share This Page The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Recruiters & Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth News Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review ApplyGiveCampuses Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042020 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
