Gary Eppen | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Search Our Site About Us Programs Faculty & Research Alumni Recruiters & Companies NewsNews Campuses Intranet Give Apply Coronavirus Updates We want to demonstrate our commitment to your privacy. In support of the changes to the EU data protection law, weve updated our privacy notice effective May 25, 2018. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA Master of Arts in South Asian Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Research Faculty and Insights Faculty Directory Chicago Booth Review Selected Papers Series Journals Research Workshops Faculty Openings Alumni Companies Hire Students Recruiting Tools Building a Recruiting Strategy Host or Attend an Event Interview Booth Students Work with Student Groups Conference Facilities Gleacher Center Access Booth Expertise Research and Learning Centers Experiential Learning Faculty Research Conferences and Other Events Hire Alumni and Executive MBAs Recruit Alumni Recruit Executive MBAs Invest in Booth Research and Learning Centers Faculty Research Student Support Focus on Your Industry Develop Talent Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Companies Events Admissions Faculty & Research HomeFaculty & ResearchEmeritiGary Eppen Faculty DirectoryEmeriti Faculty DirectoryNobel LaureatesResearch and Learning CentersChicago Booth ReviewFaculty Photo DirectorySelected Papers SeriesJournalsResearch WorkshopsResearch StaffFaculty Openings Share This Page Print Bio Gary D. Eppen Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Economics Emeritus Address: 5807 South Woodlawn AvenueChicago, IL 60637 Biography Bibliography Gary D. Eppen is the Ralph and Dorothy Keller Distinguished Service Professor of Operations Management, Emeritus, and former deputy dean for part-time programs at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Eppen joined Chicago Booth in 1964 as an assistant professor of industrial administration. Eppen served as associate dean for six years, director of the International Business Exchange Program for fourteen years, associate dean for PhD studies for seven years, director of the Executive MBA Program for five years, and deputy dean for part-time programs for three years. Eppen has published across a wide field of subjects: accounting, finance, marketing, purchasing, operations and optimization theory. His paper "Effects of Centralization on Expected Costs in a Multi-Location Newsboy Problem," Management Science 1979 was selected as one of the 50 most influential papers in the first 50 years of Management Science. He is also coauthor of the now-classic texts:Quantitative Concepts for Management: Decision Making without Algorithms; andIntroductory Management Science. He currently serves as an independent director of Hub Group, Inc., and on the advisory board of the Power Cat Group, LLC. He held the position of director of LandauerInc. from 1992 until 2007. Eppen earned a PhD in operations research from Cornell University in 1964, a master of science in industrial engineering from the University of Minnesota in 1960, a bachelor of science from the University of Minnesota in 1958, and an associate in arts degree in pre-engineering from Austin Junior College in 1956. Eppen was awarded the Francqui Medal by the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in 1979. He was awarded an honorary doctor of economics by the Stockholm School of Economics in May 1998. Books Coauthors: F. J. Gould and C. Schmidt. Introductory Management Science, Prentice-Hall, Inc.; 1993 (4th Edition), 1991 (3rd Edition) , 1989 (2nd Edition), 1984 (1st Edition). Coauthor: F. J. Gould. Quantitative Concepts for Management-Decision Making withoutAlgorithms, Prentice-Hall, Inc.; 1989 (3rd Edition), 1985 (2nd Edition), 1979 (1st Edition). Coauthors: D. Metcalfe and M. Walters. The M.B.A. Degree, Chicago Review Press, October 1979. Articles Coauthor: A. Iyer, "Backup Arrangements in Fashion Buying-The Value of UpstreamFlexibility," Management Science, September 1997. Coauthor: A. Iyer, "Improved Fashion Buying with Bayesian Updates," OperationsResearch, November-December 1997. Coauthors: W. A. Hanson and R. K. Martin. "Mining Your Product Line: Creating NewProducts with Bundlig," Sloan Management Review, Summer 1991. Coauthors: R. K. Martin and L. Schrage. "A Scenario Approach to Capacity Planning,"Operations Research, July-August 1989. Coauthor: R. K. Martin. "Determining Safety Stock in the Presence of Stochastic Lead Timeand Demand," Management Science, November 1988. Coauthor: R. K. Martin. "Solving Multi-Item Capacitated Lot Sizing Problems UsingVariable Redefinition," Operations Research, November-December 1987. Coauthors: R. K. Martin and L. Schrage. "A Mixed-Integer Programming Model forEvaluating Distribution Configurations in the Steel Industry," Computers and OperationalResearch, Volume 13, Pages 575-586, 1986. Coauthor: R. Antle. "Resource Rationing, Organizational Slack and Project Auditing,Management Science, February 1985. Coauthor: J. Lieberman. "Why Retailers Deal-An Inventory Explanation," Journal ofBusiness, October 1984. "Mathematics and Managers," Tijdschrift voor Ekonomie en Management,1981. Coauthors: R. Blattberg and J. Lieberman. "A Theoretical and Empirical Evaluation of PriceDeals for Consumer Nondurables," Journal of Marketing, Winter 1981. Coauthor: L. Schrage. "Centralized Ordering Policies in a Multiwarehouse System withLead Times and Random Demand," Multilevel Production/Inventory Control Systems:Theory and Practice, North Holland Publishing Company, February 1981. "Effects of Centralization on Expected Costs in a Multi-Location Newsboy Problem,"Management Science, May 1979. Coauthors: H. L. Davis and L. G. Mattson. "Critical Factors in Worldwide Purchasing,"Harvard Business School, November-December 1974. Coauthor: E. G. Hurst, Jr. "Optimal Location of Inspection Stations in a MultistageProduction Process," Management Science, April I974. Coauthor: E. F. Fama. "A Three Asset Dynamic Portfolio Model," Management Science,January 1971. Coauthors: F. J. Gould and B. P. Pashigian. "Extensions of the Planning Horizon Theoremin the Dynamic Economic Lot Size Model," Management Science, January 1969. Coauthor: E. F. Fama. "Cash Balance and Simple Dynamic Portfolio Problems witProportional Costs," International Economic Review, June 1969. Coauthor: F. J. Gould. "A Lagrangian Application to Production Models," OperationsResearch, July-August 1968. Coauthor: E. F. Fama. "Solutions for Cash Balance and Simple Dynamic PortfolioProblems," Journal of Business, January 1968. Coauthor: G. de Ghellinck. "Linear Programming Solutions for Separable MarkovianDecision Problems," Management Science, January 1967. "Convexity-Preserving Transformation with Stochastic Matrices," Journal of S.l.A.M., March 1966. "A Dynamic Analysis of a Class of Deteriorating Systems," Management Science, March 1966. Share This Page The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Recruiters & Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth News Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review ApplyGiveCampuses Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042020 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
