Faculty Impact | The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Coronavirus Updates We want to demonstrate our commitment to your privacy. In support of the changes to the EU data protection law, weve updated our privacy notice effective May 25, 2018. Request Information from Booth Loading... Select Submit Success Search The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth Educational Philosophy Stories Innovation History Faculty Impact Global Footprint North America Harper Center Gleacher Center Europe Asia Collaborative Community Diversity Students of Color Women LGBTQ International Students Military Faith Leadership Impact Career Advancement Request Information MBA Programs Academics Curriculum MBA Concentrations Accounting Analytic Finance Behavioral Science Business Analytics Econometrics Statistics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance General Management International Business Marketing Management Operations Management Strategic Management Classroom Experience Leadership Development Full Time Admissions How to Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit Campus Cost Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Global Community Groups Career Impact Employment Report Internships Full-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Part Time Admissions How To Apply Requirements International Students Events Visit A Class Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review Connect with a Student Evening Weekend Student Experience Groups Career Impact Industry Salary Job Salary Employers Employment Source Part-Time MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Executive Admissions How To Apply Getting Employer Support Sponsoring Your Employee Executive Assessment Events Cost Scholarships and Aid Resume Review North America Europe Asia Curriculum Program Structure Chicago Campus London Campus Hong Kong Campus Mainland Chinese Students Student Experience Career Impact History Executive MBA Blog FAQ Request Information Civic Scholars Admissions Cost and Aid FAQ Request Information Early Career Programs Chicago Booth Scholars Accelerated MBA Application Process Request Information Chicago Business Fellows Application Process Joint Degree GPHAP MBA JD MBA MBA MA Eastern European Russian Eurasian Studies MBA Master of Arts in International Relations MBA Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies MBA Master of Arts in South Asian Studies MBA MD MPCS MBA MPP MBA MBA SSA International Programs and Study Abroad Beyond the Classroom Competitions MBA Life Request Information PhD Dissertation Areas Accounting Behavioral Science Econometrics and Statistics Economics Finance Financial Economics Joint Program Psychology and Business Joint Program Management Science and Operations Management Marketing JD PHD Admissions How To Apply International Applicants Stipend Grants Events IDDEAS Booth Kellogg Research Community Career Outcomes Proposals Defenses Job Market Candidates Post Doc Market Candidates FAQ Program History Agenda Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Companies Hire Students and Alumni Interview Booth Students Recruiting Events Employment Report Develop Your Organizations Talent Partner with Booth Advance Your Brand Access Booth Expertise Contact Employer Relations and Corporate Relations Events Admissions Apply Application Form Search Privacy Notice Cookie Notice The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Companies Events Admissions Home Why Chicago Booth? Booth Stories The Chicago Approach History of Innovation Faculty Impact A Global Footprint Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Our Collaborative Community Leadership Impact A Lifetime of Career Advancement Faculty Impact HomeWhy Chicago Booth?Faculty Impact Booth Stories The Chicago Approach History of Innovation A Global Footprint Our Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Our Collaborative Community Leadership Impact A Lifetime of Career Advancement Faculty Shaping the Future Scholars. Teachers. Mentors. Our faculty make the difference. The unquestioned strength of Chicago Booth is our world-renowned faculty. Over our history, nine Booth scholars have won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences. In just the past few years, Booth facultyhave won major awards in the fields of finance, economics, psychology, accounting, and social sciences. Booth professors advise the governments of some of the worlds biggest economies, and many faculty are sought-after experts for the global media. Top companies worldwide turn to Booth faculty as consultants and board members. At the same time, our faculty are dedicated teachers and mentors. Our professors are based in Chicago, but they teach every Booth course, in every program, at all our campusesChicago, London, and Hong Kong. Faculty bring their research passion and real-world experiences into the classroom, constructing each course to reflect the realities of todays business world. They value student contributions and ideas in and outside the classroom, and strive to shape a truly collaborative, dynamic classroom experience, to prepare all students to succeed throughout their careers. What surprised me about Booth faculty? Just how approachable they were. I know they're really top faculty, and my last academic experience was as an undergrad. Now, Im a little later in life. I have some life experience. Were still their students, but they also see us as peers. Amy Altchuler, 19 Why I Teach What I Teach: Nicholas Epley In his class Designing the Good Life, Booth behavioral science professor Nicholas Epley and his students explore the behaviors that helpor hinderliving a good life. Exit Video Video Transcript Nicholas Epley: (00:02) So Im Nick Epley. Im a professor here at Booth. I teach a class called Designing a Good Life. Its really an ethics and happiness course. The class assumes that most people want to live a good life, and the question is: How can we make that most probable or most likely? This class I teach is very closely aligned to my research interests. Im deeply interested in why good people do bad things, and Im also interested in psychological barriers to doing more good in our daily lives that would actually help us to feel better as well, to feel happier in our lives. And so, over and over in the class, I actually involve my students, my MBA students, in experiments that test different hypotheses, that yield data that I can show to them right away to make a point in the class. I involve them in constructive confrontations. Nicholas Epley: (00:53) I have them write letters of gratitude. I have them go out and do random acts of kindness to see how it actually feels and to test hypotheses about the consequences of these kinds of behaviors. And then instead of just talking about the effects that these have on people, I can show them the effects that these have on the students themselves, in the data that they provide as part of this experiment, and I can sometimes do it in real time. In our personal life at home, I would say this has impacted us most in encouraging us to love a little more than we might have otherwise. We have adopted three children, and the benefit and the blessing this has been in our lives is just profound. Research-Driven Insights on Business, Policy, and Markets Benefit from the research and perspectives of some of the world's premier business scholars. Choose Your Path to Success Tell us about yourself, and we will show you the value of a Booth education. Request Information Request Information Booth is a school with amazing achievements and assetsthe greatest being our extraordinary faculty, who produce pathbreaking ideas with global impact. We use that knowledge to influence and educate the best leaders in the world. Madhav Rajan, Dean and George Pratt Shultz Professor of Accounting Global Thought Leaders In their research and their commentary on the economy, policy, markets, and more, Booth faculty make a profound impact on business around the world. Here are a selection of recent news stories. Visit In the News for the latest roundup of faculty thought leadership in the media. Randall Kroszner on the Fed and Small Businesses Booth economics professor Randall Kroszner, former governor of the Federal Reserve, talks with Yahoo! Finance about the impact of the pandemic. Jane Risen and Talismans in Times of Crisis The New York Times reports on Jane Risen'sresearch suggesting that, in times of crisis, people are looking for anything to stabilize themselves, even superstition. Marianne Bertrand on the Low Wages for Essential Workers In this Washington Post article, Booth professor Marianne Bertrand says policymakers have tools at their disposal to improve the lot of low-wage workers who do the economys most essential jobs. Supporting Groundbreaking Research Booth has a total of 13 research centers, each driving innovation and breakthroughs that are shaping the future. Accounting Research Center ARC coordinates accounting research at Booth and hosts research brown bags and workshops. It also publishes the Journal of Accounting Research, one of the top accounting research journals in the world. Becker Friedman Institute for Research In Economics Bringing together researchers from the entire Chicago economics community, the Becker Friedman Institute fosters novel insights on the worlds most difficult economic problems. Center for Applied Artificial Intelligence This center supports researchers from across Booth and UChicago in making revolutionary advances in the applications of AI. Their work touches fields as diverse as finance, health care, public policy, education, and behavioral science. Center for Decision Research Positioned at the forefront of the rapidly developing field of behavioral science, CDR is devoted to building a richer understanding of human behavior and experience. Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC An affiliate of Chicago Booth, CRSP, LLC is the leading provider of historical stock market data for researchers. The center has long been an integral part of the academic and commercial world of financial and economic research. Fama-Miller Center for Research in Finance With a mission to push the boundaries of research in finance, the Fama-Miller Center provides institutional structure and support for researchers in the field. George J. Stigler Center for the Study of the Economy and the State The Stigler Center promotes and disseminates research on regulatory capture, crony capitalism, and the various distortions that special interest groups impose on capitalism. Harry L. Davis Center for Leadership The Davis Center is an incubator and proving ground for generating new insights about leadership that impact education, practice, and discovery for future generations of students. Healthcare Initiative The Healthcare Initiative serves as a center of gravity for the diverse disciplines that engage in healthcare research at Booth and across the university. Initiative on Global Markets IGM organizes Booth faculty efforts to influence public policy and the practice of business around the world. By hosting expert panels, visiting thought leaders, and conferences, IGM raises the impact of Booth research. James M. Kilts Center for Marketing The Kilts Center for Marketing advances marketing at Booth by facilitating faculty research, supporting innovation in Booths marketing curriculum, funding scholarships, and creating engaging programs. Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation The Polsky Center bridges the gap between knowledge and practice, idea and action, and research and impact through education, partnerships, and new venture creation. Rustandy Center for Social Sector Innovation As Booths social impact hub, the center offers hands-on learning opportunities, supports innovative courses, and pursues researchall with the goal of developing people and practices with the potential to solve the worlds biggest problems. Explore Our Programs Want to learn from faculty who are breaking new ground in every aspect of business? Earn a business degree from our top-ranked Full-Time, Part-Time, and Executive MBA Programs, or a doctorate in business from the worlds leading PhD Program in business. Or enhance your career by enrolling in one of our Executive Education courses. MBA Programs Achieve more with an MBA degree from Chicago Booth. Offered in four formatsincluding Executive MBA programs based in Chicago, London, and Hong Kongto suit your personal and professional goals. PhD Program Explore your research interests and earn a PhD from one of the best business PhD programs in the world. Executive Education Choose from nearly 50 open-enrollment programs worldwide, or create a custom program tailored to meet your organizations unique challenges. Explore Faculty Impact at Booth Be the Boss You Wish You Were Professor Ann L. McGill, MBA 85, PhD, 86, invites us inside a course that aims to transform the workplace, one boss at a time. Class, Behave! When Richard Thaler brought the debate on behavioral economics to Booth, he entered a classroom that extends to Stockholm and beyond. What Can Sports Teach Us about a Leadership Mind-set? We asked three Booth experts: a former NFL player, a professor researching goal-setting, and a student reviving Booth's women's rugby club. Engage Further with Why Booth Explore Innovation and Entrepreneurship More than a century after our founding, we still believe in pushing the boundaries of business as usual. Gain a Global Perspective At Booth, business education has a global foundation. The Executive MBA Program is registered under the Hong Kong Education Bureau. Registration No.: 262427. It is a matter of discretion for individual employers to recognise any qualification to which this course may lead. The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Explore Why Booth MBA Programs PhD Executive Education Faculty & Research Alumni Companies Events Admissions About Careers at Booth News Chicago Booth Magazine Chicago Booth Review Request InformationApplyGive Other Offerings UndergraduatesTaking ClassesAll Other Offerings Global Locations Harper Center Gleacher Center Executive MBA Chicago Executive MBA London Executive MBA Hong Kong Executive Education Global Locations Follow The University of Chicago Booth School of Business 5807 S. Woodlawn Ave. Chicago, IL 60637 USA Phone: 773.702.7743 Contact The University of Chicago Intranet Privacy Notice 20042020 The University of Chicago Booth School of Business
