Adegbola Adesogan - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Degrees and Tracks Facilities Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Prospective Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Request a Tour Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Course Listings Syllabi Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses, Field Days and Training Overview Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Events Genetics Management Molecular Biology & Physiology Nutrition Reproductive and Perinatal Biology Research Program Guidelines for Projects at Research Centers Feed the Future Innovation Lab ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Animal Sciences Animal Sciences Dr. Adegbola Adesogan Professor - Ruminant NutritionDirector- Food Symptoms Institute | Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Livestock Systems Dr. Adesogan is a Professor of Ruminant Nutrition and the Director of the Food Systems Institute and the Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Livestock Systems. His research focuses on sustainably increasing animal-source food production and consumption; improving forage production, quality and preservation; and using feed additives, forages and byproducts to sustainably improve animal production and health. Curriculum Vitae | Resume | Personal Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2010 - Present; Professor of Ruminant Nutrition, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 2006 - to 2010; Associate Professor of Ruminant Nutrition, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 2001 - 2006; Assistant Professor of Ruminant Nutrition, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 1995 - 2001; Assistant Professor of Animal Nutrition, University of Wales, United Kingdom Programs Research Research Specializations and Interests Improving forage quality and conservation, conservation, and rumen fermentation with additives (enzymes, chemicals and microorganisms). Evaluating the impact of forage attributes on the health and performance of ruminants and the safety of animal products. Using legumes to improve the sustainability, productivity and efficiency of animal production. Devising location-appropriate supplementation strategies for livestock production. Using plant neutraceuticals to improve the health and performance of livestock. Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Livestock Systems Feed the Future Innovation Lab for Livestock Systems Contact Department of Animal Sciences Bldg 459, Shealy Drive PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611adesogan@ufl.edu Education Education: 2000; Foundations of Senior Management Course, Open University, UK 1996; Ph.D. Animal Production Science, University of Reading, UK. 1991; M.S. (Distinction) , Animal and Forage Science, University of Reading, UK. 1998; B.S. Agriculture, University of Ibadan, Nigeria. Publications Publications Publications Presentations International / National (.pdf 192KB) Regional (.pdf 165KB) State (.pdf 36KB) Professional Service and Awards Grants Grants and Funding(.pdf 213KB) Professional Memberships American Grassland and Forage Council American Dairy Science Association American Society of Animal Science Awards and Honors Recognized by the American Dairy Science Association for the number of manuscripts I published in and reviewed for the Journal of Dairy Science over the last three years (2013). Florida Agricultural Experiment Station LEAD21 Fellow (2010). Recipient of the Leadership Development for the 21st Century Award Fellowship from the Florida Agricultural Experiment Station. University of Florida Research Foundation Professorship award to recognize a distinguished record of research and scholarship expected to lead to continuing distinction in the field (2009) MORE >> Site Feedback| 2019 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN PrivacyLast Modified:Wed, 14 Oct 2020 12:40:25 EDT
