Pascal Oltenacu - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Degrees and Tracks Facilities Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Prospective Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Request a Tour Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Course Listings Syllabi Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses, Field Days and Training Overview Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Events Genetics Management Molecular Biology & Physiology Nutrition Reproductive and Perinatal Biology Research Program Guidelines for Projects at Research Centers Feed the Future Innovation Lab ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Animal Sciences Animal Sciences Dr. Pascal (Toni) Oltenacu Professor Animal Breeding and Genetics Dr. Toni Oltenacu is a professor in the Department of Animal Sciences at University of Florida and Professor Emeritus in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University. For the past forty years, he has been active in teaching, research and outreach programs. He has taught courses in animal breeding, animal production, equine genetics, canine genetics, decision analysis, risk analysis and systems analysis. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Oltenacus major objectives of his research have been to quantify the environmental, management and biological (including animals genotype) factors on health and welfare of farm animals for a variety of herd environments and production practices. In his research he has used mathematical modeling to describe the behavior of the biological systems and evaluate the impact of various management practices, epidemiological tools to quantify risk factors for health and welfare of animals, decision analysis to rank management interventions. Dr. Oltenacu has adopted a system approach that integrates animal health with welfare and production throughout his research career. This approach generates the type of information needed to develop decision support systems, to prioritize the emphasis to be placed on health, welfare, fertility and longevity in the management programs of the dairy cows or other livestock at the farm level. This approach to research also provides additional support to the ongoing transition from the classical animal health program with emphasis on clinical diagnosis and therapy to a more preventive animal health program based on risk assessment. Teaching ANS 2005, The Role of Animals in Human History Course Overview The course surveys the importance of animals through human history, from the prehistory to the present. The domestication of dogs, cats, major farm animals and some less familiar, such as camels, reindeer and buffalo and the role they played in different societies and cultures is discussed. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-294-6984 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611oltenacu@ufl.edu Education 1973; Ph.D. (Animal Breeding & Genetics), University of Minnesota 1970; M.S. (Animal Breeding), Iowa State University 1964; DVM College of Veterinary Medicine, Bucharest, Romania Publications Google Scholar Books and Chapters H. Grosu, L. Schaeffer, PA. Oltenacu, D. Norman, R. Powell, V. Kremer, G. Banos, R. Mrode, J. Carvalheira, J. Jamrozik, C. Drgnescu, S. Lungu. History of genetic evaluation methods in dairy cattle. The Publishing House of the Romanian Academy, Bucharest, 2013 (ISBN 978-973-27-2347-0) B. Norwood, PA. Oltenacu, S. Lancaster, MS Calvo-Lorenzo. Agricultural controversies: what everyone needs to know? Oxford University Press (in press, out in September, 2014) Oltenacu, P.A. Health, fertility and welfare in genetically high producing dairy cows. Chapter in: Sustainable Animal Production, Wageningen Academic Publishers, The Netherlands, 2009. Oltenacu, P.A. Genetic improvements for production and animal welfare. Chapter in Welfare of production animals: assessment and management of risks, Wageningen Academic Publishers, The Netherlands, 2009. (ISBN 978-90-8686-122-4). Oltenacu, P.A., H. Grosu, M. Paraschivescu, A. Ionescu. 2005. Genetic improvement programs for sheep. Chapter 18 in Genetic Improvement Programs for Livestock, Editors H. Grosu and P.A. Oltenacu, Ceres Press, Bucharest, 2005 (ISBN: 973-40-0613-4). Professional Service and Awards Honors and Recognition and Outstanding Achievements Members of the Extended Executive Board (EEB) of the International Society for Animal Hygiene (since 2011) Member of Scientific and Administrative Committee, National Institute for Research Development in Animal Biology and Nutrition, Bucharest, Romania (since 2009) Member of Editorial and Organizational Committee, National Institute for Research Development in Animal Biology and Nutrition, Bucharest, Romania (since 2009) Member Scientific Committee for the 16th ISAH Congress in Nanjing, China, 5-9 May 2013 Member of the Animal Health Animal Welfare Scientific Panel of European Food Safety Authority (2009-2012) Member of the Scientific Council organizing 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th International Symposium of Animal Biology and Nutrition held in Bucharest in 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014 Professional Memberships American Dairy Science Society American Association for the Advancement of Science Council for Agricultural Science and Technology Site Feedback| 2019 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN PrivacyLast Modified:Mon, 10 Jun 2019 15:08:16 EDT
