John Bromfield - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Degrees and Tracks Facilities Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Prospective Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Request a Tour Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Course Listings Syllabi Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses, Field Days and Training Overview Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Events Genetics Management Molecular Biology & Physiology Nutrition Reproductive and Perinatal Biology Research Program Guidelines for Projects at Research Centers Feed the Future Innovation Lab ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Animal Sciences Animal Sciences Dr. John Bromfield Assistant Professor Reproductive Biology Dr. Bromfields laboratory focuses on infection & immunity in the female reproductive tract and its impact on fertility. Using state-of-the-art technologies located within Department of Animal Sciences, we aim to understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms which result in infertility of dairy cows following infection of the uterus, known as metritis. The laboratory has a major focus on how uterine infection impacts the ovary, in particular the oocyte and follicle. Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2014-current; Assistant Professor of Physiology. Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida. 2012-2014; Postdoctoral fellow. Department of Obstetrics, Gynaecology and Womens Health, University of Missouri-Columbia. 2009-2012; Research Officer. Institute of Life Science, School of Medicine, Swansea, UK. 2008-2009; Lead Teaching Assistant. Frontiers in Reproduction course. Marine Biological Laboratories, Woods Hole, MA. 2007-2009; Postdoctoral fellow. Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Kansas University Medical Centre. 2006-2007; NHMRC Postdoctoral Research Officer. Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Adelaide, Australia. Programs Research Dr. Bromfield's laboratory focuses on infection and immunity in the female reproductive tract, in particular, a specific interest in uterine infection in dairy cows. Approximately 40% of all dairy cows acquire a uterine infection following calving resulting in pain, infertility, and reduced milk production resulting in an annual cost to the US dairy industry of $650 million. Using molecular and cellular techniques the aim is to elucidate the mechanisms involved in the innate immune response to invading pathogens in the uterus resulting in infertility. The Gram-negative bacteria E. coli, comprising a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) cell wall, is the primary causes of clinical metritis in dairy cows. The innate immune response to LPS is orchestrated through the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway. Interestingly, dairy cows with uterine infections accumulate LPS in the ovarian follicle and initiates an inflammatory response by the ovarian granulosa cells. This response results in reduced oocyte quality while reducing the follicular reserve and can explain some level of infertility in cows with infections. The goal is to understand how LPS, and other bacterial components negatively impacts the ovary and oocyte. By understanding these mechanisms he will be able to intervene in dairy cows with infection and promote fertility and milk production. Secondary to infection and immunity Dr. Bromfield's lab has an active interest in improving oocyte cryopreservation and the developmental environment of the early embryo. Teaching Dr Bromfield currently teachesthe Molecular Endocrinology graduate course (ANS 6767) in the Spring. Dr Bromfield also participates in the teaching of Physiology of Reproduction (ANS 6751C) and Animal Systems II Reproduction (VEM 5111). Contact Bldg 459, Shealy Drive PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611Phone: (352) 294-6991 Ext. 241 Fax: (352) 392-5595jbromfield@ufl.eduPersonal Page Education Education: 2002-2006; PhD (Medicine), University of Adelaide, Australia. 2001; BSc (Hons) Reproductive Immunology, University of Adelaide, Australia. 1998-2000; Bachelor of Science (Double major Biochemistry and Immunology), University of Adelaide, Australia. Publications Publications (.pdf 18KB) Google Scholar Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships Society for the Study of Reproduction (SSR) European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE) Society for Reproduction and Fertility (SRF) International Society for Fertility Preservation (ISFP) Frontiers in Reproduction Firbee Honors and Recognition 2013; University of Adelaide international exchange fellow. 2010; Wales Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society communication prize. 2009; International Society for Fertility Preservation communication prize. 2005; Foetal and Neonatal Physiological Society, DSL Young Investigator Award. 2005; Australian Foetal and Neonatal Physiology Workshop communication prize. Site Feedback| 2019 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN PrivacyLast Modified:Thu, 27 Jun 2019 07:15:58 EDT
