Francisco Penagaricano - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Degrees and Tracks Facilities Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Prospective Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Request a Tour Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Course Listings Syllabi Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses, Field Days and Training Overview Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Events Genetics Management Molecular Biology & Physiology Nutrition Reproductive and Perinatal Biology Research Program Guidelines for Projects at Research Centers Feed the Future Innovation Lab ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Animal Sciences Animal Sciences Francisco Peagaricano Assistant Professor, Genetics and Genomics Dr. Peagaricano is broadly interested in statistical and quantitative genetics and genomics. His major duties are to develop and conduct research and extension programs in animal genomics and related subject areas that ultimately benefit dairy and livestock industries.. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Peagaricano is broadly interested in statistical and quantitative genetics and genomics. His research program focuses on the development and application of statistical and computational methods for the analysis of phenotypic and molecular data in livestock species. Current research topics include (1) genetic and genomic analysis of production, reproduction, and health traits in dairy cattle, (2) evaluation of the effects of maternal nutrition during pregnancy on the epigenome and transcriptome of the offspring, and (3) inference of causal gene-phenotype networks in multivariate genetic systems combining structural equation models and molecular information. Extension Extension: Area of Speciality; Dairy Breeding and Genomics The extension program focuses on educating dairy and livestock producers and allied industries about practical and economically important aspects of genetic and genomic evaluation and selection, including the transfer of new research findings. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-294-6988 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611fpenagaricano@ufl.eduFrancisco Peagaricano Lab Education Education December 2014 - Ph.D. (Animal Science), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison WI May 2014 - M.S. (Statistics), University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison WI August 2010 - M.S. (Animal Science), Universidad de la Repblica, Montevideo Uruguay May 2009 - B.S. (Biochemistry), Universidad de la Repblica, Montevideo, Uruguay May 2005 - B.S. (Biology), Universidad de la Repblica, Montevideo, Uruguay Academic Positions Since Final Degree February 2015-present: Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL Publications PubMed GoogleScholar Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships American Dairy Science Association International Biometric Society International Society of Animal Genetics Site Feedback| 2019 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN PrivacyLast Modified:Mon, 10 Jun 2019 15:30:56 EDT
