Nicolas DiLorenzo - North Florida Research and Education Center - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content MENU Who we are Contact Us/Directions Live Oak Marianna Quincy Today's NFREC History of NFREC .pdf Format Newsletter Directory Faculty Live Oak Quincy Marianna Emeritus Faculty In Honor Of AG Food & Bio Scientists Quincy Marianna Staff Live Oak Quincy Marianna Post Docs Contact Info Grad Students Contact Info Donate For Direct Support/Gift to NFREC Gifts-and-Endowment-Opportunities Subheading 1 Link 1 Link 2 Link3 Link 4 Subheading 2 Link 5 Link 6 Link 7 Link 8 Subheading 3 Link 9 Link 10 Link 11 Link 12 Subheading 4 Link 13 Link 14 Link 15 Link 16 Subheading 5 Link 17 Link 18 Link 19 Link 20 Search for: North Florida Research And Education Center North Florida Research And Education Center Dr. DiLorenzo, Nicolas Associate Professor Dr. Nicolas DiLorenzo received his degree in Agricultural Engineering from the Universidad Nacional de La Plata, Argentina, in 2002. He moved to the U.S. in 2002 to pursue graduate studies at the University of Minnesota, where he obtained his Master degree in 2004 and his PhD in 2008, both in Animal Science with emphasis in beef cattle nutrition. From 2008 to 2010 Dr. DiLorenzo worked as a postdoctoral Research Associate at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, TX, conducting research in the area of feedlot nutrition and management. In 2010 he joined the University of Florida as an Assistant Professor in Animal Sciences at the North Florida Research and Education Center in Marianna. His primary research and extension interests are in the area of beef cattle nutrition, with the objective of improving the efficiency of use of forages minimizing the environmental impact. His research focuses on ruminal metabolism and fermentation, emissions of greenhouse gases, and nutrient excretion in cattle systems. Programs Research: Beef Cattle Nutrition and Management My research program is based on innovative aspects of ruminant nutrition, concentrating on the mechanisms of ruminal fermentation and nutrient utilization that drive the efficiency of conversion of feed into animal protein. Because of the significant role that forages play in the nutrition of ruminants in Florida, particularly in beef cattle, the optimization of supplementation strategies and grazing management is a key portion of my research program. In order to remain active in such a dynamic field of research it is essential to maintain a highly collaborative research program, taking advantage of multidisciplinary approaches whenever possible. The field of ruminant nutrition provides a prime scenario for such interdisciplinary collaboration given the convergence of disciplines such as microbiology, ecology, biochemistry, and agronomy. My research program involves the interface between aspects of basic and applied science, with the main objective of understanding basic aspects of ruminal fermentation that can be manipulated to enhance beef cattle performance and decrease the environmental impact. My main research interests can be summarized as follows: The development of nutritional strategies that contribute to enhance animal performance while providing an alternative to the use of antimicrobials. The optimization of the use forage resources by strategic supplementation, management practices or adoption of new forage varieties or species. The development of strategies (additives, management practices, etc.) that contribute to decrease the environmental impact of beef production, in particular greenhouse gas emissions. Extension: Increasing the efficiency of beef production minimizing the environmental impact My Extension Program is entitled: Increasing the efficiency of beef production minimizing the environmental impact and its main objective is to increase the adoption rate of best management practices that lead to an increase in the profitability of beef production systems in the State of Florida while minimizing the impact on the environment. These goals will be achieved by a combination of tools such as In-service Trainings, development of extension documents, development of decision-aid tools for mobile devices, field days and presentations at producer meetings. In my extension program I attempt to engage graduate students as much as possible to provide them with exposure to an aspect of our profession that is often not considered as a career path. This approach has been highly rewarding for both students and producers. Contact Dr. DiLorenzo, NicolasNorth Florida Research and Education Center3925 Highway 71Marianna Fl. 32446-8091 Phone: 850-526-1615 Fax: 352-846-6617Email Education Postdoctoral Research Associate, Texas Tech Univeristy, 2008-2010 Ph.D. Animal Science, Univeristy of Minnesota, 2008 M.S. Animal Sceince, University of Minnesota, 2004 Agricultral Engineer, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, Argentina, 2002 Publications Research Publications Extension Publications Professional Service and Awards 2013 Univeristy of Florida - IFAS Early Career Scientist Award Recipient of the 2008 International Stockmen's Educational Foundation Student Travel Fellowship to participate in the International Livestock Congress. Denver, CO, 2008 Recipient of the 2007 Outstanding Doctoral Student Award. Department of Animal Science, University of Minnesota, 2007. 1st Place in the Graduate Research Paper Competition - Ph.D. Poster Category at the American Society of Animal Science and American Dairy Science Association Midwest branch meetings. Des Moines, IA, 2007. Awarded the 2006-2007 College of Food, Agricultural & Natural Resources (CFANS) Graduate Fellowship. University of Minnesota. Site Feedback| 2019 | North Florida Research and Education Center | University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences 155 Research Rd, Quincy Fl. 32351 | 850-875-7100| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN PrivacyLast Modified:Thu, 20 Feb 2020 10:56:54 EST
