Carissa Wickens - UF/IFAS Department of Animal Sciences - University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences - UF/IFAS Skip to main content ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory MENU About Us Research Programs Degrees and Tracks Facilities Alumni & Friends People Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Extension Graduate Students Academic Advisors Prospective Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Request a Tour Current Students Undergraduate Opportunities Advisors GraduateStudents Course Listings Syllabi Extension Extension Programs Beef Equine Dairy Small Ruminants Meat Youth Courses, Field Days and Training Overview Food Safety Modernization Act, Preventive Controls for Animal Food (FSMA) UF/IFAS Corn Silage and Forage Field Day Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) Events Genetics Management Molecular Biology & Physiology Nutrition Reproductive and Perinatal Biology Research Program Guidelines for Projects at Research Centers Feed the Future Innovation Lab ANS IT Faculty & Staff Campus Map IFAS Directory Search for: Animal Sciences Animal Sciences Dr. Carissa Wickens Assistant Professor Extension Equine Specialist Dr. Carissa Wickens is an Assistant Professor and Extension Equine Specialist at the University of Florida, Department of Animal Sciences. Her faculty appointment is 60% Extension, 40% Research. Programs Research Research Summary Dr. Wickenss specific areas of research include associations between management and stereotypic behaviors in horses, and the relationship between gastrointestinal irritation and the oral stereotypic behavior of crib-biting, air quality with emphasis on ammonia emissions in equine facilities, and human-horse interactions. Extension Area of Speciality: Equine Behavior and Welfare, Management, and Nutrition Dr. Wickenss extension areas address expanding education experiences in equine behavior and welfare, management, and nutrition. Dr. Wickens is the co-coordinator of the Livestock Education and Certification for Agriculture Law Enforcement (LECALE) and Florida Equine Institute programs. Dr. Wickens works with county Extension faculty and Florida clientele to deliver effective Extension educational programs. Contact PO Box 110910 Gainesville, FL 32611 352-392-1917 2250 Shealy Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611cwickens@ufl.edu Education Education 2009;Ph.D. Animal Science (Horse Behavior) Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 2003; M.S. Animal Science (Equine Nutrition), Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 2001; B.S. with High Honor, Animal Science/Specialization in Agribusiness, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 1998; Certificate in Horse Management, Agricultural Technology Program, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI Academic Positions Since Final Degree: 2014-present; Assistant Professor, Equine Extension Specialist, Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 2009-2013; Assistant Professor, Equine Extension Specialist, Department of Animal and Food Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware Publications Google Scholar Publications (161KB .pdf) Professional Service and Awards Professional Memberships American Registry of Professional Animal Scientists Equine Science Society International Society for Applied Ethology International Society for Equitation Science National Association of Equine Affiliated Academics Honors and Awards 2017 Florida Association of County Agriculture Agents Outstanding Specialist Award 2013; Nominated for the Excellence in Teaching Award (Presented to faculty in recognition of exceptional performance in teaching at the University of Delaware) 2012; Residence Life Certificate (Presented to a faculty member in recognition for making a positive difference in a students University of Delaware experience) 2010; Excellence in Academic Advising Award (Presented each year to a faculty member for outstanding academic advising of undergraduate students by the Agricultural College Council, College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of Delaware) 2008; Jacob A. Hoefer Endowed Fellowship in Animal Science (Presented for outstanding performance as a Ph.D. candidate, Department of Animal Science, Michigan State University) Site Feedback| 2019 | Department of Animal Sciences| University of Florida,Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL 32611-0910 | (352) 392-1981| Analytics (Google Privacy Policy)| Policies:Disability Services|UF Privacy|SSN PrivacyLast Modified:Mon, 10 Jun 2019 11:07:30 EDT
