Susan M Larson | Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering | UIUC skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Apply Give My.NPRE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Nuclear, Plasma & Radiological Engineering Search Menu Search About Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here About Welcome NPRE Fact Sheet Faculty and Facilities Brochure Talbot Laboratory Expansion Our History Partnerships Employment Opportunities Visiting NPRE and Campus Contact Us Admissions Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here Admissions Why NPRE? Professional Concentrations Our Community Scholarships Undergrad Experience Careers By the Numbers Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Deadlines Financial Aid Housing Requirements Graduate Admissions Graduate Transfer Academics Ready to apply? Your path to NPRE at Illinois begins here. Start Here Academics Undergraduate Programs Programs of Study Nuclear Power Plasma/Fusion Radiological Sciences Suggested Course Sequence Curriculum Technical Electives Advising Scholarships Honors and Programs Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Internships and Workshops Student Outcomes Program Educational Objectives Graduate Programs Degrees & Curriculum Fellowships and Awards Internships and Workshops Qualifying Examination Academic Resources Student Societies Courses Research Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty. Learn More Research Research Areas Materials Science Nuclear Power Plasma Physics and Fusion Radiological Science Reliability and Risk Research Groups Research Facilities Alumni Contact Us Ross WilliamsAssociate Director of Advancement1060 ECE Building(217) 244-2296rwilli@illinois.edu Alumni Awards Newsletter Alumni Board Events News Mohaghegh, Brooks promoted Read Full Story News | November 12, 2020 News Calendar Leadership Speaker Series NPRE SPEED Interchange People Explore our core visionary research areas conducted by world-renowned faculty. Learn More People Faculty Administration Research Staff HomePeople Susan M Larson Susan M Larson Associate Professor (217) 244-3817 smlarson@illinois.edu 206 Engineering Hall Biography Susan M. Larson holds an A.B. (Washington University, St. Louis 1981) in physics, A.B. (Washington University, St. Louis 1981) in German languages and literature, M.S. (California Institute of Technology 1982) in environmental engineering science, and Ph.D. (California Institute of Technology 1988) in environmental engineering science. She has been on the faculty of the department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of Illinois since 1988 and is affiliated with the Department of Atmospheric Sciences and the Department of Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering. During 2002-03 she was a Visiting Assistant Dean and director of the Women in Engineering Program for the College of Engineering. Dr. Larson has taught courses ranging from introductory to graduate levels. She has taught the probability and statistics course for undergraduate civil engineering students, an air quality modeling for upper level undergraduates and beginning graduate students, and an air pollution sampling classes for graduate students. She has received recognition as an outstanding instructor. She received the 1991 College of Engineerings Everitt Award for Teaching Excellence and was a 1993 finalist for the University of Illinois Luckman Undergraduate Distinguished Teaching Award. She was also the winner of the 2001Association of Environmental Engineering and Science Professors/ McGraw-Hill Award for outstanding teaching in environmental engineering and science. Dr. Larson is a member of the American Association for Aerosol Research (AAAR), the American Geophysical Union (AGU), and the Association of Environmental Engineering and Science Professors (AEESP). She has served on the Board of Directors for AAAR (as board member and treasurer) and for AEESP (also as board member and treasurer). She is also a recipient of the NSF Presidential Young Investigator Award. Research Statement Dr. Larsons research areas include experimental, field, and modeling investigations in air quality. In the area of aerosol optics, she and her research group have studied how particles absorb and scatter light and modeled how this behavior can affect atmospheric visibility and radiative transfer. They have carried out projects into growth mechanisms of air pollution particles, worked to identify their physical and chemical characteristics, and modeled air pollution from the microscale to the global scale. Courses Taught ENG 198 - First-Year Women Engineers 2 ENG 198 - First-Year Women Engineers ENG 198 - 1st Yr Women Engineers ENG 199 - Freshman Research Seminar ENG 199 - First Year Women Engineers ENG 199 - Undergraduate Open Seminar ENG 491 - ISUR ENG 491 - Interdisciplinary Design Proj Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Get In Touch Make a Gift Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 216 Talbot Laboratory, MC-234 104 South Wright Street Urbana, IL 61801 Phone: 217-333-2295 | Fax: 217-333-2906 Email: nuclear@illinois.edu Visit Campus 3 Concentrations Plasma and Fusion Power, Safety and the Environment Radiological, Medical, and Instrument Applications Cookie Preferences Copyright 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
