Faculty Affairs BMCC A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search Reimagining BMCC About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Continuing Ed Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs Students Faculty & Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring CUNYfirst Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC HomeAcademic AffairsFaculty Affairs Faculty Affairs VIDEO: 2019 Distinguished Teaching Awards Video: Faculty Sabbatical Research Faculty Promotion and Tenure 2019 BMCC Annual Research Symposium (BARS) Faculty Affairs CETLS E-Learning Center Office of Faculty Appointments Research Experiential Learning Study Abroad Faculty Handbook Internal Grants Instructional Continuity Fall 2020 courses will primarily be taught through distance learning. Faculty Affairs staff and resources will be provided remotely, as nearly all BMCC staff continue to work from home. BMCC E-Learning Centerand CETLS have createdCourse ContinuityandEmergency Preparednesswebsites with tutorials, training materials, and tools to support and prepare faculty for possible course disruption. It includes teaching approaches during emergencies, including the Resilient Teaching workshop, how to transfer an in-person course to Blackboard, how to use Zoom Web Conferencing, and other useful information. CUNY sends out periodic updates on Academic Continuityitems relating to faculty and instruction are collated on theCUNY Faculty Affairs website. BMCC Faculty Affairs Faculty are at the heart of the learning community that is BMCC. Faculty teach and mentor students, conduct research and scholarly inquiry, help lead the college, and serve the community. The college is committed to helping the full-time and part-time faculty grow and innovate in order to reach their full potential and help students learn. Just as we believe that learning is a lifelong activity, professional development is an ongoing effort. BMCC has several programs and resources to help faculty to engage in ongoing learning activities for any and all of their activities. See the links on the left to explore BMCC programs. The links on the right are resources for the University and other outside organizations. Here are some of the initiatives we are currently working on. High Impact Learning High Impact Teaching Practices are pedagogical practices that have been shown to be beneficial to students and their learning. They take many forms, and some of the practices being used at BMCC include First-Year Seminars, Writing-Intensive Courses, Undergraduate Research, Global Learning, Service Learning, and Learning Communities. BMCC offers many professional development activities to broaden the understanding and use of these evidence-based practices. Learn more about high impact practices. 2020 Vision: Engaging Voting and Election Issues in and out of the Classroom Elections are a great opportunity to engage students in the classroom. But they can also be difficult and contentious, creating conflict and tension for students and faculty alike. In the Spring of 2020, we kick off an effort to promote engagement in and out of the classroom. Three faculty presentations scheduled for Spring 2020 will be held at a later date. This activity is part of BMCCs and CUNYs efforts to promote voter registration, participation, and awareness. See these web sites for more information: #BMCCvotes and CUNY voter registration. Contact Dean James Berg Associate Dean of Faculty jberg@bmcc.cuny.edu Working remotely Fall 2020 Office: (212) 220-8323 (messages) Google voice: (732) 709-1864 Faculty Development Day 2020 Friday, November 13 10 a.m.-12:45 p.m. via Zoom What We Do Internal Grants Distinguished Teaching Award High Impact Practices Winter Convocation Faculty Mentoring Micro-grants for Mentoring Inquirer Journal Faculty Leadership Academy New Faculty Orientation Support for Faculty Open Educational Resources (OER) Faculty Development Committee (Academic Senate) Faculty Handbook Faculty Guide to Services for Students Office of Sponsored Programs CUNY Faculty Affairs Faculty Resource Network Community College Humanities Association Connect2Success Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
