Public Safety BMCC A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search Reimagining BMCC About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Continuing Ed Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs Students Faculty & Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring CUNYfirst Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC HomePublic Safety Public Safety Public Safety About Public Safety Safety Tips Drug and Alcohol Policies Sexual Harassment/ Abuse Types of Crimes Emergency Preparedness Emergency Notifications Statistics Shelter in Place Evacuation Procedures "Run, Hide, Fight" Video Meet the Staff For Emergencies To report a crime or emergency, call Public Safety at (212) 220-8080. If on campus call 911 or use one of the blue call boxes located throughout the campus. Click here for emergency call box locations Lost and Found If you find anything, please report it to any Security Officer. If you lost anything, check the security office located at S-211 or contact Public Safety at (212) 220-8136 Mission Statement The BMCC Public Safety Department is here to foster the mission of the college by providing a safe, secure, and comfortable environment for students, faculty, staff and visitors. All members of the BMCC/Public Safety Service are expected to respect each individual, and treat each individual with professionalism and civility while maintaining the rules and guidelines that will ensure the safety and security of all persons at the college. Public Safety provides free training to the faculty, staff and students in C.P.R./A.E.D./First Aid, and Campus-Community Emergency Response Training. Staff are also offered training as Fire Wardens for the various campus locations. Please contact the Public Safety office for more information. Learn more about public safety at BMCC. Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Updates Job Offer Scams: Public safety would like to remind you that if you receive an email or text message regarding a job offer/interview which you did not apply for it should be considered a scam. Suspicious messages such as this should be reported to public safety or your local police station. Learn more. Students Guide to Fraud Scams (pdf) Identity Theft Scam Awareness Housing Scams and consumer information blog. Imposter Scams and related video FBI E-Mail Updates: Employment Scam Targeting College Students Remains Prevalent Children on Campus Policy Sexual Misconduct Policy Policy on the Reporting of Alleged Misconduct (pdf) Bias and Hate Crimes Investigation of Violent Felony Offenses Marketing of Credit Cards to Students Policy (pdf) Transportation and Emergency Resources 2020 Clery Report (pdf) VIDEO: Run, Hide Fight: Surviving an active shooter event English version. Video Copyright 2012 City of Houston. See the video BMCC Public Safety 199 Chambers St, Room S-211 New York, NY 10007 Phone: (212) 220-8000 ext.7080 For all emergencies call ext. 8080 Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
