Mohammad Q. Azhar, Ph.D BMCC A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Search for: Search Search for: Search Reimagining BMCC About BMCC About BMCC Home Mission Statement and Goals College Structure and Governance Our Students Faculty and Academics Campus and NYC Administration: Presidents Cabinet Institutional Advancement History of BMCC Public Affairs Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics Admissions Admissions Home Visit Our Campus Request Information Apply Now After You Are Admitted First-Time Freshmen Transfer Students Evening/Weekend Programs Students Seeking Readmission Non Degree Students Military and Veterans International Students Academics Academic Affairs Academic Departments Academic Programs Success Programs Course Listings Learning Options Course Schedule Honors and Awards Policies Academic Calendar Continuing Ed Services Activities & Athletics Administration and Planning BMCC Express Compliance & Diversity Costs and Financial Aid Human Resources Information Resources and Technology Panther Station Public Safety Records & Registration Sponsored Programs Student Affairs Students Faculty & Staff Faculty/Staff Resources BMCC Experts Faculty Affairs Alumni LOG IN Student Email Faculty/Staff Email BMCC Portal BMCC Zoom Blackboard DegreeWorks Connect2Success Tutoring CUNYfirst Faculty Pages A-Z Index Directory Library E-Learning Donate to BMCC Home FacultyMohammad Azhar Mohammad Azhar Associate ProfessorComputer Information Systems EMAIL: mazhar@bmcc.cuny.edu Office: F-930L Office Hours: Phone: +1 (212) 220-1477 Dr. Azhar is an Associate Professor of Computer Information Systems at CUNY BMCC. Dr. Azhars current research includes human-robot collaboration for assistive robotics, cybersecurity education, and educational robotics. Dr. Azhar has been involved in organizing and teaching numerous teacher training workshops for Educational Robotics programs, after-school robotics clubs, and robotics competitions for students over a decade. He is passionate about getting undergraduate as well as K-12 students involved in solving robotics problems, taking part in robotics research, and competitions that help them realize where they could go with robotics in the real world. His dream is to get students involved in robotics and Cyber Security so they can excel in problem-solving and join teams someday that are designing next-generation robots and secured digital world to make our lives better. ExpertiseHuman-Robot Collaboration, Artificial Intelligence, Educational Robotics, and Cyber Security Education. Personal Web page Degrees Ph.D. Graduate Center, The City University Of New York, Computer Science, Courses Taught3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 211CSC 211 (Advanced Programming Techniques)This is a second course in programming which will further develop those skills gained in CSC 111 emphasizing reliability, maintainability, and reusability. Students will be introduced to applications of Pointers, Dynamic memory allocation, Arrays, Abstract data types, Objects, classes, and object-oriented design. Additional programming topics such as Inheritance, Polymorphism, Text Processing, Exception Handling, Recursion and Templates will also be covered. Prerequisite: CSC 111 or departmental approval3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CIS 455CIS 455 (Network Security)This course provides a comprehensive overview of network security. The topics covered are: general security concepts including authentication methods, common network attacks; and methods for safeguarding against attacks; communication security including remote access, e-mail, the World Wide Web, directory and file transfer, and wireless data; infrastructure security that explores various network devices and media, and the proper use of perimeter topologies such as DMZs, extranets, and intranets to asymmetric and symmetric algorithms, and the types of PKI certificates and their uses; operational/ organizational security is discussed as it relates to physical security, disaster recovery, and business continuity, as well as coverage of computer forensics. Prerequisite: CIS 3453 CRS.2 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CSC 101CSC 101 (Principles in Information Technology and Computation)This course introduces the student to the principles and theories of computation and information processing. The topics include hardware and software organization, data representation, algorithm development and networking principles. Special emphasis will be placed on creation of knowledge from data; the impact of computation on daily life; role of abstraction in solving problems; and implementation of algorithms on a variety of platforms including the Internet.3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CSC 210CSC 210 (Computer Programming II)This course is a continuation of CSC 110. Students are introduced to elementary data structures, string processing, and searching and sorting techniques. Students are expected to complete several complex programs.Prerequisite: CSC 110, CSC 111 or departmental approvalCourse Syllabus3 CRS.4 HRS.CSC 330CSC 330 (Data Structures I)This course is an introduction to abstract data structures, their use and implementation. Storage allocation techniques, including stacks, queues, and linked lists and recursive programming will be discussed. Students will be expected to complete several programming assignments illustrating the basic concepts. Prerequisites: CSC 210 and CSC 230Course Syllabus4 CRS.3 HRS.2 LAB HRS.CIS 155CIS 155 (Computer Hardware)This course introduces students to computer hardware. Computer components such as motherboards, memory chips, disk drives, printers, scanners, storage devices, and keyboards will be covered. Students will learn how to install, maintain, upgrade and configure such hardware components. Students will also be introduced to binary, octal, and hexadecimal number systems as used in computer hardware. Students will be introduced to industry ethics, professional certifications, and career paths in the computer industry.3 CRS.2 HRS.3 LAB HRS.CIS 445CIS 445 (Telecommunications Networks II / LAN)This course is a second course in telecommunications networks with special emphasis on Local Area Networks (LAN). It covers the fundamentals of LAN technology, such as wiring and topology as well as implementation and management of LANs. Advanced topics include LAN connectivity and future LAN directions. Prerequisite: CIS 345Course SyllabusResearch and ProjectsResearch Projects: Assistive Robotics Educational Robotics Cyber Security Education Projects: CUNY Course Innovation Grant, Collaboration with IBM, PI (2019-2020) CyberSecurity in Robotics, PSC-CUNY Award, PI (2019-2020) BMCC Gateway Initiative III: Teaching As Research, PI (2018-2019) BMCC Makathon Academy, Computer Information Systems Department, BMCC Perkins Sub Grant (2019) Publications Sklar, E. I., & Azhar, M. Q. (2018, December). Explanation through Argumentation. InProceedings of the 6th International Conference on Human-Agent Interaction. ACM Azhar, M. Q., & Sklar, E. I. (2017). A study measuring the impact of shared decision making in a human-robot team,The International Journal of Robotics Research Azhar, M. Q., & Sklar, E. I. (2016). Analysis of empirical results on argumentation-based dialogue to support shared decision making in a human-robot team,In Robot and Human Interactive Communication (RO-MAN), 25th IEEE International Symposium Azhar, M. Q., Parsons, S., & Sklar, E. (2013, May). An Argumentation-based dialogue system for human-robot collaboration.,In Proceedings of the 2013 international conference on Autonomous agents and multi-agent systems. Honors, Awards and Affiliations MATLAB Technical Award, Robocup HomeRobotEDU 2018, Luis Marcano, Treeshan Yeadram, Marco Santana, Mentor: Dr. Azhar Best Paper Award, Sixth International Conference on Human-Agent Interaction (HAI), 2018 for Sklar, E. I., & Azhar, M. Q. (2018, December). Explanation through Argumentation. InProceedings of the 6th International Conference on Human-Agent Interaction(pp. 277-285). ACM. Additional Information Borough of Manhattan Community College The City University of New York 199 Chambers Street New York, NY 10007 Directions (212) 220-8000 Directory Notice of Non-Discrimination News Event Calendar Job Opportunities Human Resources Admissions Library Give to BMCC Accessibility Virtual Tour Privacy Policy Text-only Version Information for: Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Social Media Directory
