Faculty Openings | McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis Skip to content COVID-19 Resources Information for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Apply Now! It's easy to start your application today. Start Here Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dual Degree Program McKelvey School of Engineering Academics Academics The world needs difference-makers. Academic Programs Academic Calendar Undergraduate Admissions Langsdorf Scholars Student Profiles Academics Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Application Process Deadlines Student Profiles Academics Dual Degree Program Study Abroad Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute Academics Communication Center Undergraduate Research Summer Research Opportunities Academics Interdisciplinary PhD Programs Computational & Data Sciences Imaging Science Materials Science & Engineering Academics UMSL/WashU Joint Undergraduate Engineering Program Main Menu Faculty & Research Looking for someone? Search Engineering Faculty View Faculty Directory Faculty & Research Creating knowledge for a better world. Faculty Directory Faculty Openings Research Research Centers Research Toolkit Main Menu Offices & Services Offices & Services The support you need, both in and outside the classroom. Student Services Graduate Student Services Undergraduate Student Services Commencement First Year Center Mentor Programs Student Organizations Offices & Services Non-academic Offices Engineering IT Event Planning & Space Reservation Human Resources International Relations Industry Relations Marketing & Communications Research Development & Administration Offices & Services Alumni Make a Gift McKelvey Challenge McKelvey Engineering Awards Scholars in Engineering Program University Advancement Women & Engineering Offices & Services Main Menu News & Events Featured News Zhang, team work to keep cyberphysical systems secure, predictable 09.21.2020 News & Events Get involved and stay informed. Event Calendar The comprehensive source for all McKelvey School of Engineering events. News Explore the latest news from the school with stories ranging from groundbreaking research to how McKelvey Engineering students are making an impact in the world. Podcast Engineering the Future, hosted by Dean Aaron Bobick, explores the world's most daunting challenges and investigates how McKelvey Engineers are solving these problems through research, innovation and collaboration. Engineering Magazine Engineering Momentum is the bi-annual McKelvey School of Engineering alumni magazine featuring compelling stories about the school, faculty research, student and alumni. Main Menu About About We're here to create a positive impact in the world. About McKelvey Engineering St. Louis Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Leadership Meet the Dean National Council Senior Leadership About Facilities Buildings Makerspace Machine Shop About Engineering Directory WashU Directory About University Partners Gephardt Institute Institute for School Partnership Skandalaris Center Sustainability About Main Menu COVID-19 Resources Don't know where to start? Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Industry Start your application today Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Dual Degree Program Search Trending Searches graduate admissions academic programs financial aid academic calendar maps & directions Home Faculty Faculty Openings Faculty Faculty Openings Faculty openings and positions available in the McKelvey School of Engineering View current faculty openings by department: Computer Science & EngineeringElectrical & Systems EngineeringEnergy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Open Faculty Position on Race and Ethnicity The Department of Computer Science & Engineering seeks an outstanding tenure-track faculty to begin on or after July 1, 2021. We seek talented and highly motivated individuals who will build transformative research programs related to race and/or ethnicity. We particularly welcome those whose work focuses onadvancing data science for racial equity. In addition to addressing biases in artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms, we equally welcome applicants who are working on improving racial equity through other research in data and computer sciences. Candidates should show exceptional promise for research leadership and a strong commitment to high-quality teaching. They will be expected to publish their research in peer-reviewed conferences and journals, teach, and participate in department and university service. The usual teaching load is one course per semester. This hiring is part of a university-wide race and ethnicity faculty cluster hire initiative that intends to add12 new facultyworking at the intersections of race, ethnicity, disparities, and justice across disciplines. The University already boasts preeminent scholars engaging in path-breaking research on race, and endeavors to further enhance the Universitys distinction in this area. With this set of hires, the University will increase its capacity to examine some of the most pressing questions of our time; complement and advance the expertise of outstanding researchers and departments; and embed a suite of varied methodological approaches to race in the intellectual life of the Danforth campus. Successful candidates will also be affiliated with theDivision of Computational and Data Sciences a transdisciplinary Ph.D.-granting program spanning the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, the Brown School of Social Work and Public Health, and other departments to advance scholarship on data-centric methods addressing complex social and health problemsand theCenter for the Study of Race, Ethnicity & Equity(CRE2) an inter- and transdisciplinary center focused on studying how race and ethnicity are integral to the most complex and challenging issues of our time. A complementary call for an open faculty position in the Brown School will be available on their website soon. An appointment is expected at the rank of Assistant Professor; however, exceptionally qualified applicants may be considered for appointments at the Associate or Full Professor level. Applicants must hold a doctorate in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a closely related field. Qualified applicants should submit a complete application (cover letter, curriculum vitae, research statement, teaching statement, diversity statement, and at least three letters of reference) through Interfolio athttps://apply.interfolio.com/80287. Applications received by December 15, 2020 will receive full consideration. Washington University is a private university with roughly 7,000 full-time undergraduates and 7,000 graduate students. It is nationally known for the exceptional quality of its student body and for its attractive campus, which borders residential neighborhoods and one of the nations largest urban parks. Many faculty walk or bike to work. St. Louis combines a Midwest cost of living with a vibrant metropolitan area, offering a wealth of cultural and entertainment opportunities. The CSE department is known for its collegiality and for providing a supportive environment for new arrivals and is committed to strong internal and external mentoring for new faculty. For questions related to this search, please contactrecruiting@cse.wustl.edu. Computer Science & Engineering Open Faculty Position in Data Science for Humanity The Department of Computer Science & Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis seeks outstanding tenure-track faculty to begin on or after July 1, 2021. We value both fundamental and applied research and have a strong tradition of successful technology transfer. We seek talented and highly motivated individuals who will build transformative research programs through work in the core disciplines of computer science and computer engineering, as well as through interdisciplinary collaborations. Our search this year focuses on finding outstanding faculty in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and/or Data Science. Successful candidates will also affiliate with our universitys interdisciplinary Division of Computational Data Science, which is conducting a synergistic search, jointly with the Brown School of Social Work and Public Health, for faculty who investigate racial equity. These recruiting efforts are part of a university-wide effort to recruit 12 faculty whose research focuses on race or ethnicity, which will offer tremendous opportunities for exciting and impactful collaborations. Recently completed McKelvey Hall will support our departments continued growth and collaborations, hosting both computer and data science. Successful candidates should show exceptional promise for research leadership and a strong commitment to high-quality teaching. Candidates are expected to publish their research in peer-reviewed conferences and journals, teach, and participate in department and university service. The usual teaching load is one course per semester. Diversity and Inclusion are core values at Washington University, and candidates should demonstrate the ability to create inclusive classrooms and environments in which a diverse array of students can learn and thrive. Appointment is expected at the rank of Associate or Full Professor; however, exceptionally qualified applicants may be considered for appointments at the Assistant Professor level. Applicants must hold a doctorate in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a closely related field. Qualified applicants should submit a complete application (cover letter, curriculum vitae, research statement, teaching statement, and contact information for at least three references) through Academic Jobs Online at https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/17490. Applications received by December 15, 2020, will receive full consideration.Contact recruiting@cse.wustl.edu for questions related to this search. Washington University is a private university with roughly 7,000 full-time undergraduates and 7,000 graduate students. It is nationally known for the exceptional quality of its student body and for its attractive campus, which borders residential neighborhoods and one of the nations largest urban parks. Many faculty walk or bike to work. St. Louis combines a Midwest cost of living with a vibrant metropolitan area, offering a wealth of cultural and entertainment opportunities. Our faculty and staff are known for our collegiality and for providing a supportive environment for new arrivals. An Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action Employer, Washington University seeks an exceptionally qualified and diverse faculty; women, minorities, protected veterans, and candidates with disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply. Electrical & Systems Engineering Tenure-Track Faculty Positions Washington University in St. Louis invites applications for multiple tenure-track faculty positions in the department of electrical and systems engineering, with an effective start date on or after July 1, 2021. Candidates should have earned a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in electrical engineering, systems engineering, computer engineering or a closely-related discipline. Washington University is a highly-selective national research university with a strong tradition of cross-disciplinary endeavors. We seek applicants who will contribute to Washington Universitys growing multi-disciplinary research efforts in the fields of devices, systems, artificial intelligence and data sciences. Areas of particular interest are science and technologies that will enable the next generation of cyber-physical systems and the internet-of-things. Some of the relevant topics include system and data sciences for modeling, analysis and design for efficiency, reliability, trust and security, wireless systems and radio-frequency integrated circuits, embedded machine learning and neuromorphic systems. Also, of interest are data science and system science research topics that focuses on race and/or ethnicity, as highlighted in the Washington Universitys Race and Cluster Hire Initiative (https://provost.wustl.edu/cluster/). We also seek senior applicants who are interested in serving as the director for the Master of Sciences in Data Analytics and Statistics (MSDAS) program within the ESE department. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion are core values at Washington University, and the candidates will need to demonstrate the ability to create inclusive classrooms and environments in which a diverse array of students can learn and thrive. Successful applicants will have a primary appointment in the department of Electrical and Systems Engineering (ese.wustl.edu) with the possibility of joint appointments in other departments. The faculty member will be expected to teach undergraduate and graduate courses in electrical and systems engineering, participate in University service, and establish a thriving externally-funded research program. Faculty positions are open for all levels; appointment at a senior rank (associate and full professor) will be considered for exceptional candidates with a distinguished record of achievement in research and teaching. Applicants should apply online with (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) a statement of research plans (Research statement should not exceed three pages. It should highlight the problem(s) or set of questions you plan to investigate, the approach that you envision taking in the next 5 years and your proposed funding plan), (3) a statement of teaching interests and philosophy, and (4) a list of at least three references to (https://apply.interfolio.com/80404). Priority will be given to completed applications (including submitted reference letters) received before December 15, 2020. However, applications will be accepted at any time and will be considered until the positions are filled. Women and members of groups under-represented in engineering are encouraged to apply. Washington University in St. Louis is committed to the principles and practices of equal employment opportunity. It is the Universitys policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or genetic information. Verification of employment eligibility will be required upon employment. Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Department Chair The DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, ENVIRONMENTAL AND CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (EECE) at WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN ST. LOUIS invites applications and nominations for the tenured position of Professor and Department Chair. The Department has a unique research portfolio at the intersection of environmental engineering, novel energy solutions, and chemical engineering and processing that has enabled new interdisciplinary areas fundamental to identifying solutions to problems relevant to society. We are committed to providing high-quality education and advancing basic science and translational research with a focus on aerosol science and engineering, synthetic biology and bioproduct engineering, engineered aquatic systems, and multi-scale chemical engineering. Our faculty lead major research centers including the Center for Aerosol Science and Engineering and Center for Solar Energy and Energy Storage and collaborate on interdisciplinary research projects at Washington University in St. Louis. EECE faculty have also developed a network of partners across the globe to work collaboratively on research and educational projects. By our international network of research universities and corporate partners, EECE is helping develop a cohort of future leaders, promoting global awareness and social responsibility. The department has 20 tenure-line faculty and 5 teaching-track faculty members; undergraduate enrollment is 127 students and the graduate enrollment is 174. Research is supported by over $11 million annual awards from agencies such as NSF, NIH, DOE, USDA, EPA, AFOSR, and ONR, and faculty have been recognized by receipt of many prestigious awards including the NSF CAREER Award to most of the junior faculty. Diversity and inclusion are core values at Washington University; candidates should have a demonstrated commitment to creating inclusive environments that embrace differences in gender, race, ethnicity, geography, socioeconomic status, disability, sexual orientation and/or philosophy. Strong candidates will have an earned doctorate and be internationally recognized for research excellence, leadership, and scholarship in an area of energy science, environmental engineering, chemical engineering, or other relevant fields. Additionally, they should have a compelling vision for the future and integration of diverse disciplines, be able to lead and advance a research-oriented department, have a demonstrated dedication to education, and be a key mentor to faculty and staff. Ideal candidates will have developed a thriving independent research program, led multi-investigator projects, participated in the development of novel curricula, and have a record of academic and professional leadership. Excellent organizational, interpersonal, and communication skills are required. Serving as the executive officer of the department, the Department Chair reports directly to the Dean of the McKelvey School of Engineering. The Chair is expected to serve for an initial term of 5 years with the opportunity for reappointment. The Chair is expected to be a role model and provide leadership in all matters of department policy, structure, and function including strategic planning, appointments, promotions, instruction, mentorship, research, and administration and will conduct research, publish in peer-reviewed journals, teach relevant courses, advise students, and participate in University service. The Chair is expected to cultivate a supportive, collegial, and safe environment for faculty, staff, and students to achieve the highest possible level of excellence in research, teaching, and learning. Inquiries, nominations, and applications are invited. Although the search will remain open until the position is filled, review of candidate materials will begin immediately. Candidates should provide, in confidence, a curriculum vitae, and a letter of application that highlights administrative acumen and leadership experience, and the names and contact information of five references. References will not be contacted without prior knowledge and approval of the candidates. Materials should be sent electronically via e-mail to the universitys consultant, Dr. Jonathan Fortescue of Park Square Executive Search, at eece_chair@parksquare.com. Documents that must be mailed may be sent to Jonathan Fortescue, Ph.D., Managing Partner, or Kyle Meingast, Principal, Park Square Executive Search, LLC, 225 Franklin Street, 17th Floor, Boston, MA 02110. Phone: 617-401-2991. Washington University in St. Louis is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Washington University welcomes difference on our campus in the form of gender, race, ethnicity, disability, geography, socioeconomic status, age, politics, religion, philosophy, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and veteran status. All applicants who share this goal are encouraged to apply. WashU Human Resources Job listings atjobs.wustl.edu WashU HR athr.wustl.edu An Equal Opportunity Affirmative-Action Employer Washington University encourages and gives full consideration to all applicants for admission, financial aid, and employment. The University does not discriminate in access to, or treatment or employment in, its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, veteran status, disability or genetic information. Inquiries about compliance should be addressed to: Universitys Vice Chancellor for Human ResourcesWashington UniversityCampus Box 1184One Brookings DriveSt. Louis, MO 63130. Engineering Departments Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science Sever Institute Technology & Leadership Center Contact Us Washington University in St. Louis McKelvey School of Engineering Campus Box 1100 1 Brookings Drive St. Louis, MO 63130-4899 Phone: 314-935-6100 Contact Us Resources COVID-19 Resources Canvas Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Emergency Management Engineering IT Maps & Directions Make a Gift WebFAC / WebSTAC 2020 Washington University in St. Louis. Policies
