Dan Cole, Ph.D. | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Dan Cole Associate Professor (ME) Director of Masters Degree Programs Office 15 St. Marys Street, EMB 133 Email dccole@bu.edu Phone (617) 353-0432 Associate Professor (ME) Director of Masters Degree Programs Education Ph.D. City University of New York Areas of Interest Electromechanical behavior of nanotechnology devices* Electrodynamic systems * Microlithography simulation models and methods * Advanced energy extraction mechanisms Research Areas Dr. Cole has worked in the area of simulating physical processes, particularly as concerns the development and manufacturingof nanotechnology devices, as well as the prediction of electron transport phenomena within the semiconductor devices. A key aim here is to use the appropriate blend of accuracy in the fundamental physics versus more phenomenological physical descriptions, in conjunction with advanced numerical algorithmic schemes, to create simulation programs that can accurately predict the processes and device behavior with reasonable execution times. By creating such programs with fast execution times and good numerical robustness properties, and by ensuring that adequate calibration procedures are followed, then the speed of semiconductor technology development can be significantly improved, costly experiments can be reduced, and better design points can be achieved. Dr. Coles research work has entailed thermodynamic analysis of operations performed on electrodynamic systems consisting of classical charged particles interacting with classical electromagnetic radiation, including zero-point radiation, and the predicted thermal-like effects of accelerating simple electromagnetic systems through the vacuum. Current research activities include improvements in microlithography simulation models and methods, and thermodynamic considerations of advanced energy extraction mechanisms. PublicationsView a complete list of publications chronologically by year.Affiliation: Administration & Staff (ME), Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
