Jason Papademetriou | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Jason Papademetriou Post-Doctoral Associates Email jpapad@bu.edu Post-Doctoral Associates Education B.A. in Physics and M.S. in Biochemistry and Molecular/Cell Biology from Georgetown University. Research Areas His primary research project is development of phase-shift nanoemulsions for therapy of solid tumors (kidney, liver, etc). His secondary research project involves delivery of protein therapeutics with an ultrasound-responsive colloid for cardiovascular disorders. Biography Jason Papademetriou completed his B.A. in Physics and M.S. in Biochemistry and Molecular/Cell Biology from Georgetown University. At the university of Maryland College-Park, he worked under the guidance of Dr. Silvia Muro to complete his PhD in Bioengineering which investigated receptor-mediated targeting strategies for nanocarriers using multiple cell surface molecules. He joined the lab for post-doctoral training in November 2013, and is excited at the opportunity to expand his knowledge in many areas (stimuli-responsive colloids, acoustics, image-guided drug delivery, and more). Affiliation: Research Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
