Louis C. Gerstenfeld, PhD | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Louis C. Gerstenfeld, PhD Professor, Department Orthopaedic Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine Graduate Faculty (Primary Mentor of Grad Students), Boston University School of Medicine, Division of Graduate Medical Sciences Research Professor, Boston University School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry (ME) Office 72 E. Concord St Housman (R) Email lgersten@bu.edu Phone (617) 414-1660 Website BU CTSI Research Profile Professor, Department Orthopaedic Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine Graduate Faculty (Primary Mentor of Grad Students), Boston University School of Medicine, Division of Graduate Medical Sciences Research Professor, Boston University School of Medicine, Department of Biochemistry (ME) Areas of Interest Bone Histomorphometry, Cell Biology of Skeletal Tissues, Extracellular Matrix, Fracture Healing, Osteoporosis Biography My expertise is in the area of skeletal tissue biology. I have studied skeletal biology for more than 30 years and have broad knowledge across many areas in the field, including metabolic bone disease and orthopedic-related diseases. I have carried out numerous preclinical assessments of pharmacological compounds as they relate to safety and efficacy in the treatment of fracture and osteoporosis. I have expertise in skeletal tissue structure and the histomorphometric assessment of skeletal tissues. I was among the first four labs in the United States to develop in vitro osteoblast cultures and helped to establish the standard time dependent sequence of osteogenic differentiation in vitro. My laboratory also was one of four to initially isolate the proteins and clone the major extracellular matrix proteins of bone. I have served on the NIH IRG for Orthopedics, NASA review panels for skeletal tissue biology and the DOD review panels for orthopedic related research. Affiliation: Affiliated Faculty (ME), Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
