Michael Caramanis, Ph.D. | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Michael Caramanis Professor (ME, SE) Office 15 St. Marys Street, EMB 137 Email mcaraman@bu.edu Phone (617) 353-3247 Website Michael Caramanis Professor (ME, SE) Education Ph.D. Harvard University Additional Affiliations Division of Systems Engineering Areas of Interest Analysis and Design of Power Markets * Design of Microgrid cyber capabilities Decision support algorithms for load management * Scheduling and Planning of Complex Stochastic Production Systems Research Areas Michael Caramanis (BS Stanford U., MS and PhD Harvard U.) is Boston University Professor of Mechanical and Systems Engineering. He served at the Greek National Energy council (1976-79) the MIT Energy Laboratory (1979-82) and was chair of the Greek Regulatory Authority for Energy from February 2005 till recently. He has directed several research projects sponsored by NSF, EPRI, NYSERDA and the Industry, authored many journal articles and co-authored Spot Pricing of Electricity, Kluwer, 1988. He researches complex stochastic production systems and decision support in real-time electric power markets. He currently focuses on the Cyber-Physical-Energy-System/Smart Grid that (i) is open to developers and users to render it capable of supporting real-time market at the wholesale and retail levels, and (ii) enables load and distributed resource management to mitigate T&D and Ancillary Services congestion and realize synergies among market-ready sustainable energy technologies including wind generation, distributed storage, roof-top PV and Hybrid Electric Vehicles. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME), Primary & Affiliated Faculty (SE), Primary Faculty (SE), Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
