Eytan Barouch, Ph.D. | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Eytan Barouch Professor (ME) Office 15 St. Marys Street, EMB 131 Email eytan@bu.edu Phone (617) 358-0845 Professor (ME) Education Ph.D., University of New York at Stony Brook Biography Areas of Interest Simulation of industrial processes * Numerical analysis * Algorithm development Professor Barouchs main current interest is a combination of numerical analysis with specific practical problems of electromagnetic applications.These include: Simulations of microchip fabrications using non-uniform grid transforms to reduce the storage and file size required so practical results can be obtained in real time without any sacrifice of accuracy. Electromagnetic inverse scattering of complicated material-compositions and complicated shapes. In particular metals and lossy materials combined to enhance or reduce scattered beams for both identifications and disguise. Material properties identifications including non-linear response using ADE (auxiliary differential equation) for each term in the materials permittivity function. Publications A complete list of publications by year. A complete list of publications by number of citations. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
