Christie Bielmeier | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Christie Bielmeier Senior Lecturer Office 730 Commonwealth, EMA 207 Email cmb77@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3883 Senior Lecturer Primary Appointment Mechanical Engineering Education Ph.D. University of Massachusetts Lowell M.S. Rochester Institute of Technology B.S. Rochester Institute of Technology Areas of Interest Robotics and mechanical devices * mobile platforms for air, land, sea and space * smart materials and MEMS devices * Self-healing textiles * sustainable textiles and composite structures * micro-scale finite element analysis of textiles and systems * entrepreneurship and business management strategies Research Areas Christie Bielmeier, PhD. has 15 years of industry experience researching, testing, designing and fabricating UAV and space robotics for cutting-edge research facilities such as NASA, NRL, Physical Sciences Inc., Aurora Flight Sciences, PinnaclX, and Symbotic. She specializes in bio-inspired designs that are intrinsically low-power, low-mass, and easy to use. In addition, she excels at developing finite element models for composite and textile structures. She enjoys bringing her start-up and industry experience into the classroom. Her 2017 doctorate focused on the development of textiles that physically prevents mosquito biting without use of toxic chemicals that can harm the environment and humans. She developed a novel micro-penetrator puncture test to measure the force of insects biting through fabrics and micro-finite element models to simulate mosquitos puncturing (biting) fabrics. She hopes to continue this research at BU and is currently working with BU undergrad students to develop sustainable textiles to protect people from vector borne diseases. Biography Dr. Christie Bielmeier brings her research of developing eco-friendly bug-resistant products to BU Mechanical Engineering Department. She works to bring her entrepreneurial sprit and research based experience to the classroom. She hope to engage BU students with the development of less toxic, insect resistant clothing for people throughout the world.Bielmeier teaches product development and CAD courses at BU. Outside the classroom, Bielmeier is CTO and founder of Lil Buggers, creators of the worlds first chemical-free insect resistant clothes for kids. This Boston-based company uses cutting-edge textile design: their innovative garments protectkids from mosquito and tick bites without chemical additives.Lil Buggers gearis hand sewn and embroidered in Somerville, MA and can be purchasedonline. Lil Buggers fabric was developed for the military, but strong enough to standup to whatever kids can dish out! The fabricfeatures UV protection, moisture resistance, and high durability. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
