Anna Thornton Ph.D. | College of Engineering Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. College of Engineering Menu Jump to Menu Close Search Search for: People Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Career Development Corporate Partners Prospective Undergraduate Undergraduate Degree Programs Study Abroad Design Projects Research Opportunities Transfer to BU Tours Prospective Graduate Graduate Degree Programs Graduate Spotlight Masters Degrees LEAP: MS for Non-Engineers PhD Programs Graduate Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Materials Science & Engineering Systems Engineering Academics Areas of Study ENG Distance Learning About ENG Meet Dean Lutchen and his Views on Education Boston University Creating the Societal Engineer ENG at a Glance Leadership and Administration Directory Inclusion and Outreach More ENG Strategic Plan Undergraduate Outcomes News Events ENG Leadership Advisory Board Student Clubs & Associations Research Research Spotlight Research Centers and Institutes Distinguished Lecture Research Brochures Prysm Video Wall Anna Thornton Professor of the Practice (ME) Office 730 Commonwealth Ave, Rm 202D Email thorntac@bu.edu Phone 617-358-1311 Professor of the Practice (ME) Primary Appointment Mechanical Engineering Education Cambridge University, Ph.D. Biography Dr. Thornton earned her B.S.E. from Princeton University and her Ph.D. from Cambridge University. She started her career as a faculty member in MITs Mechanical Engineering department. During her time at MIT, her research focused on product development, manufacturing, and quality systems. After leaving MIT, she was a senior partner in Analytics Operations Engineering. At Analytics she worked with over 40 large companies to implement, streamline, and improve their product development, manufacturing and quality systems. As the Director of Engineering and Quality at Dragon Innovation she helped over 30 new hardware startups to transform prototype designs into final products. Dr. Thornton is the author of many articles, blogs and a book and is a frequent speaker in multiple university program and industry forums. Affiliation: Primary & Affiliated Faculty (ME) Boston University College of Engineering Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube Google+
