Amor A. Menezes Primary Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Department Chairs Message News History Vision and Mission Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information Recent Research Awards REEF Available PhD Research Positions myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services Ways to Give myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2020 Course Schedule Fall 2020 Course Schedule Spring 2021 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2020 Course Schedule Fall 2020 Course Schedule Spring 2021 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimary Primary Pages Faculty Primary Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor Lecturer Engineer Research Scientist Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services In Memoriam Organization Chart Alumni Bio Form Amor A. Menezes Assistant Professor Address Office Wertheim 489 Lab MAE-C 124 work Phone: (352) 294-0470work Fax: (352) 392-7303workfax Email: amormenezes@ufl.eduINTERNET Website: https://syborgs.mae.ufl.edu/ BiographyAmor Menezes joined the UF Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering faculty in August 2017 after a year as an Associate Project Scientist with the California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences (QB3) at the University of California, Berkeley. He was a QB3 Postdoctoral Scholar from 2011 to 2016. He was a Research Fellow between 2010 and 2011 in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Michigan, where he received a Ph.D. as an NSERC Post-Graduate Scholar and Michigan Teaching Fellow in 2010, and a Master of Science in Engineering as a Milo E. Oliphant Fellow in 2006. He graduated from the University of Waterloo in 2005 with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Mechanical Engineering with Distinction, Deans Honors (top 10%), and the Sandford Fleming Co-op Medal. Professor Menezes is the Science Principal Investigator of the five-year, multi-university, Center for the Utilization of Biological Engineering in Space (CUBES), a NASA Space Technology Research Institute in biomanufacturing for deep space exploration. He also leads the Systems Design and Integration Division in CUBES. He is an IEEE Senior Member. He was a 2015 Emerging Leader in Biosecurity and a 2015 fellow of the Synthetic Biology Leadership Excellence Accelerator Program. Education Postdoc, 2016, University of California, Berkeley,Postdoc, 2011, University of Michigan,Ph.D., 2010, University of Michigan,M.S.E., 2006, University of Michigan,B.A.Sc., 2005, University of Waterloo Teaching Interests Linear and Nonlinear Systems and Control, Stochastic Optimization, Evolutionary Computation, Aircraft and Spacecraft Performance and Control, Analog and Digital Control Systems, Biological Control Systems Research Interests Dynamical systems theory and control, with applications to the fields of systems biology and synthetic biology. University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250 Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961 Fax: 352-392-7303 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Student Tours Academic Calendar Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
