Professor Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Department Chairs Message News History Vision and Mission Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information Recent Research Awards REEF Available PhD Research Positions myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services Ways to Give myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2020 Course Schedule Fall 2020 Course Schedule Spring 2021 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2020 Course Schedule Fall 2020 Course Schedule Spring 2021 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleFacultyPrimaryProfessor Professor Pages Faculty Primary Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor Lecturer Engineer Research Scientist Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services In Memoriam Organization Chart Alumni Bio Form Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N P R S T U W Nagaraj K. Arakere Associate Chair (Academic Affairs) and Professor (352) 273-2849work nagaraj@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Arakere received his Ph.D. in 1988 from Arizona State University. His research interests include Damage mechanics of structural materials subjected to monotonic and fatigue loading, Fatigue life evaluation, Rolling contact fatigue, Spall propagation, Superalloys, Foams, Related constitutive and finite element model development, and Dynamics of rotor-bearing systems. Education Ph.D, 1988, Arizona State University Teaching Interests Failure of materials in design, Fatigue, Fracture mechanics, Contact mechanics, Vibrations, Rotor dynamics Research Interests Fatigue, fracture, microstructure-sensitive design, monotonic and cyclic deformation response, Ultra-high strength bearing steels, Single crystal nickel-base superalloys, contact mechanics, fatigue spall propagation, and related constitutive and finite element model development. View Profile S. Bala Balachandar William F. Powers Professor, Distinguished Professor (352) 392-8909work bala1s@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 1988, Brown University, Teaching Interests Computational fluid science (aka CFD), Large scale simulation of complex flows, transition and turbulence, multiphase flows, environmental flows View Profile Scott Banks Professor and Interim Department Chair (352) 392-6109work banks@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Banks has been active in orthopaedic and joint mechanics research his entire career. He is a member of several professional societies including ASME, the Knee Society, the American Society for Biomechanics and the Orthopaedic Research Society. Professor Banks served as President and annual conference host for the International Society for Technology in Arthroplasty in 2013, and remains a member of the Board of Directors. View Profile Prabir Barooah Professor (352) 294-0411work pbarooah@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Barooah received his Ph.D. in 2007 from the University of California, Santa Barbara. From 1999 to 2002 he was a research engineer at United Technologies Research Center, East Hartford, CT. He received the M. S. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Delaware in 1999 and the B.Tech degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in 1996. View Profile Oana Cazacu Professor and Charles Taylor Faculty Fellow (850) 833-9350work cazacu@reef.ufl.eduINTERNET Education H.D.R.(Habilitation a Diriger les Recherches), 2004, University of Lille, France D.S., 1995, University of Lille, France, Research Interests Damage, Metal Plasticity and Viscoplasticity, Rock and Soil Mechanics, Mechanics of Particulate Materials, Penetration Mechanics View Profile Jacob N. Chung Andrew H. Hines/Progress Energy Professor and Florida Eminent Scholar (352) 392-9607work jnchung@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Chung is currently the Andrew H. Hines, Jr./Progress Energy Eminent Scholar Chair Professor at the University of Florida. He joined the University of Florida in 1998 after 19 years on the faculty at the Washington State University. Dr. Chung holds both B.S. and M.S. degrees in Nuclear Engineering and had spent 6 years working as a nuclear reactor safety engineer in the industry before receiving his Ph.D. View Profile Carl D. Crane III Professor (352) 219-6433work ccrane@ufl.eduINTERNET Carl D. Crane is a Professor in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Director of the Center for Intelligent Machines and Robotics (CIMAR) at the University of Florida. He received his B.S. and M.E. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1978 and 1979. Following this he spent five years as an officer in the Army Corps of Engineers. View Profile Warren Dixon Ebaugh Professor (352) 846-1463work wdixon@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2000, Clemson University Research Interests Adaptive nonlinear control, robotics, human-machine interactions, biomedical, visual servo control View Profile Z. Hugh Fan Professor and George N. Sandor Faculty Fellow (352) 846-3021work hfan@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Fan joined UF in 2003. His research focus is to develop microfluidics and BioMEMS technologies and apply them to biomedical applications. Microfluidics involves device fabrication and manufacturing, study of fluid behavior in microscale, and exploiting the devices for a variety of applications including point-of-care testing, environmental monitoring, and detection of pathogens in the field. Education Ph. View Profile Yong Huang Professor (352) 392-5520work yongh@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2002, Georgia Institute of Technology Research Interests Additive manufacturing of biological and engineering structures (using inkjetting, laser-induced forward transfer, and extrusion), precision machining, intelligent manufacturing. View Profile Peter G. Ifju Associate Chair (Faculty Development) and Professor (352) 392-6744work ifju@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1992, Virginia Polytechnic InstituteResearch InterestsExperimental mechanics, moire interferometry, compositie materials, micro air vehicles. View Profile Nam-Ho Kim Professor and Daniel C. Drucker Faculty Fellow (352) 846-0665work nkim@ufl.eduINTERNET Dr. Nam-Ho Kim is presently Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida. He graduated with a Ph.D. in the Department of Mechanical Engineering from the University of Iowa in 1999 and worked at the Center for Computer-Aided Design as a postdoctoral associate until 2001. He is an Associate Fellow of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and an Associate Editor of Journal of Mechanical Design and Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization. View Profile Renwei Mei Professor (352) 392-0888work rwmei@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1990, University of IllinoisResearch InterestsTwo-phase flow, turbulence, computational fluid mechanics. View Profile Saeed Moghaddam Knox T. Millsaps Professor (352) 392-0889work saeedmog@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 2006, University of Maryland Research Interests Micro/nanoscale transport and nanotechnology for energy science and health applications; nanoengineering of functionalized membranes for energy conversion and storage and filtration/separation applications; heat and mass transfer in micro/nanostructures; microfluidic reactor platforms for fundamental energy research and reaction engineering; portable power View Profile Kamran Mohseni W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor (352) 273-1834work mohseni@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Mohseni received his Ph.D. in 2000 from California Institute of Technology. After a year as a Postdoc in Control and Dynamical Systems at Caltech he joined the Aerospace Engineering Sciences department at the University of Colorado in Boulder as an Assistant Professor. Professor Mohseni joined the University of Florida as W. P. Bushnell Endowed Professor in MAE and ECE departments in 2011. View Profile Anil V. Rao Professor and Erich Farber Faculty Fellow (352) 392-5523work anilvrao@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Rao earned his Ph.D. in mechanical and aerospace engineering from Princeton University, his M.S.E. in aerospace engineering from the University of Michigan, and his B.S. in mechanical engineering and A.B. in mathematics from Cornell University. Professor Raos research interests lie in the area of control and optimization of space and air vehicles and combine the development of new computational methods for optimal control with novel applications including space mission planning, performance optimization of atmospheric flight vehicles, and other vehicular control problems (for example, high performance ground and underwater vehicles). View Profile Subrata Roy Professor (352) 392-9823work roy@ufl.eduINTERNET Education PhD, 1994, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Research Interests Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer, Magnetogasdynamics, Plasma Based Flow Control, Electric Propulsion, and Micro/Nanoscale Flows. View Profile Bhavani V. Sankar Professor (352) 392-6749work sankar@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Sankar received his Ph.D. in 1984 from Purdue University. His research interests lie in the field of mechanics of composite materials and structures, especially micro-mechanics and fracture mechanics. Education Ph.D., 1984, Purdue University Teaching Interests Aerospace structures, Mechanics of composite materials and structures, Fracture mechanics, Finite element analysis. Research Interests Composite materials and structures including impact- fracture- and micro-mechanics, textile composites, cellular materials and foams, sandwich construction, functionally graded materials, and integrated thermal protection systems. View Profile Malisa Sarntinoranont Graduate Coordinator and Professor (352) 392-8404work msarnt@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1999, U.C. Berkeley Research Interests Soft tissue biomechanics, physiologic fluid flow, and macromolecular drug delivery. View Profile W. Gregory Sawyer Ebaugh Professor (352) 392-8488work wgsawyer@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1999, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Research Interests Soft Matter Tribology the study of friction wear and lubrication. View Profile John K. Schueller Professor (352) 392-0822work schuejk@ufl.eduINTERNET EducationPh.D., 1983, Purdue UniversityResearch InterestsManufacturing, Controls, Machine systems, Off-highway vehicles. View Profile Corin Segal Professor (352) 392-6132work cor@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1991, University of Virginia Research Interests Combustion, fluid diagnostics, Fluid mechanics, aircraft design. View Profile Mark Sheplak Professor (352) 392-3983work sheplak@ufl.eduINTERNET Mark Sheplak is currently a Professor holding joint appointments in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Florida. Prior to joining UF in 1998, he was a postdoctoral associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technologys Microsystems Technology Laboratories, Cambridge, MA from 1995-1998. View Profile S.A. Sherif Professor (352) 392-7821work sasherif@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1985, Iowa State University Research Interests Heat and Mass Transfer, Thermodynamics, Thermal System Design and Optimization, Refrigeration and Cryogenics, HVAC, Solar and Hydrogen Energy View Profile Douglas E. Spearot Professor (352) 392-6747work dspearot@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Spearot received his Ph.D. in 2005 from the Georgia Institute of Technology. His research interests include: Computational mechanics and materials science (including atomistic simulations and phase-field modeling), behavior of defects in materials, nanostructured materials, linking between atomistic and continuum length scales, and method development for atomistic modeling. Education Ph.D., 2005, Georgia Institute of Technology Teaching Interests Mechanics of materials, fracture mechanics, classical atomistic simulation methods. View Profile Ghatu Subhash Ebaugh Professor subhash@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1991, University of California San Diego Research Interests Cutting-edge research in the areas of solid mechanics, material science and biomedical engineering High strain rate and shock response of biomaterials and gels Dynamic multiaxial response, characterization of deformation modes, and fracture behavior of structural ceramics, ultrahigh temperature materials, metallic glasses, 3D woven composites, structural foams, nanostructured materials, low density materials, and refractory metals Processing-structure-property relationships in ultra-high temperature ceramics and ceramics Development of novel test methods for low density materials and Experimental mechanics Dynamic wear, Dynamic hardness, Modeling of material removal mechanisms during high speed grinding of ceramics Surface texture and friction in pavements Bioinspired nanotechnology: Characterization of diatoms for biomedical and engineering applications Hydroforming View Profile James A. Trainham Professor (352) 392-0826work jtrainham@ufl.eduINTERNET Professor Trainhams research interests are in renewable energy. Before joining UF, Trainham spent most of his professional career in industry: four years as chief technology officer JDC Phosphate, four years as vice president, distinguished fellow and director of the Research Triangle Solar Fuels Institute at RTI International, senior vice president of Sundrop Fuels (a solar fuel company), served as global vice president of Science and Technology at PPG Industries, and had a 25-year career at the DuPont Company. View Profile Roger Tran-Son-Tay Professor (352) 392-6229work rtst@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1983, Washington University Research Interests Biomedical engineering, rheology, fluid mechanics. View Profile Lawrence S. Ukeiley Professor (352) 392-9459work ukeiley@ufl.eduINTERNET Education Ph.D., 1996, Clarkson University Teaching Interests Fluid Dynamics, Aerodynamics, Experimental Methods Research Interests Fluid Mechanics, Experimental Methods, Turbulence, Aeroacoustics, Flow Control, Reduced Order Modeling, Bio-Inspired Low Reynolds Number Fluid Dynamics, Fluid Structure Interactions View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250 Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961 Fax: 352-392-7303 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Student Tours Academic Calendar Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
