Alumni Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Skip to main content University of Florida Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering About Department Chairs Message News History Vision and Mission Accreditation/ABET Advisory Board People Primary Faculty Affiliate/Adjunct Faculty Courtesy Appointments Emeritus Faculty Research Groups Alumni Staff Organization Chart Academics Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Research College Institutes and Centers Faculty Research Matrix Faculty Laboratories REU Program Information Recent Research Awards REEF Available PhD Research Positions myMAE Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Mail/Facilities Research Administration Student Services Ways to Give myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2020 Course Schedule Fall 2020 Course Schedule Spring 2021 Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Quick Links myMAE Room Reservations Course Schedule Summer 2020 Course Schedule Fall 2020 Course Schedule Spring 2021 Search Submit Search Search Submit Search Department of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering HomePeopleAlumni Alumni Pages Faculty Primary Professor Associate Professor Assistant Professor Lecturer Engineer Research Scientist Affiliate/Adjunct Courtesy Emeritus Research Groups Dynamics, Systems & Control Solid Mechanics, Design & Manufacturing Thermal Sciences & Fluid Dynamics Staff Administration Fiscal Administration Human Resources IT Support Facilities Research Administration Student Services In Memoriam Organization Chart Alumni Bio Form Search Directory A B C D E F G H I J K L M N P R S T U W M. Giselle Fernndez-Godino Postdoctoral Associate, Los Alamos National Laboratory gisellefernandez@lanl.govINTERNET Degrees 2018 Ph.D.- Aerospace Engineering 2016 M.S Mechanical Engineering Bio Giselle is a postdoctoral research associate in the Verification and Analysis Group, X Computational Group at Los Alamos National Laboratory since 2019. Her research is currently focused on machine learning applied to fracture mechanics and inertial confinement fusion. Giselle earned her bachelors degree in nuclear engineering from Instituto Balseiro, Argentina in 2014. She earned her masters degree in mechanical engineering in 2016 and her Ph.D. degree in aerospace engineering in 2018 from the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the University of Florida under the supervision of Dr. Haftka and Dr. Balachandar. Her research focused on multi-fidelity surrogates and uncertainty quantification of large-scale multiphase flow simulations. View Profile Tracy Gill Project Manager, NASA, Kennedy Space Center tracy.gill@gmail.comINTERNET Degrees 2000 MS Aerospace and Mechanical Systems 1989 BS Electrical Engineering Bio Tracy Gill works for NASA at the Kennedy Space Center (KSC). He has thirty years of experience including work on space shuttle payloads and on space station elements and experiment payloads gaining valuable experience doing hands-on work on flight and ground support hardware and working with people from all over the United States and the world. He currently supports the NASA Artemis program including Human Landing Systems, Gateway and NextSTEP (Next Space Technologies for Exploration Partnerships) commercial partnering efforts for lunar exploration. Tracy is a big sports fan following football and basketball and any team that represents the University of Florida. And as expected of someone in the space field, he is a fan of popular science fiction including Star Wars and Star Trek and participates in the occasional comic book convention. Tracy enjoys speaking to local schools on various topics in the space field and is an adjunct professor for the International Space University. View Profile Sean R Niemi Lecturer University of Florida sean.niemi@gmail.comINTERNET Degrees 2018 Ph.D. Mechanical 2015 Master of Science Mechanical 2012 Bachelor Mechanical 2012 Bachelor Aerospace Bio Sean is a lecturer in MAE focusing his research and teaching efforts on pedagogical improvement to the way we teach Senior Design. He also dabbles in Mechanical Design, Design for Manufacturing, and Instrumentation Design when time permits. As a former Formula SAE team member, Sean continues to support student groups, and mentors several undergraduate thesis students each semester. In his free time, Sean enjoys hiking through our nations beautiful National parks and homebrewing his own adult beverages when time and circumstance allows. View Profile Bill Roto Reuter Pres & CEO R-Squared Solutions billreuter18@gmail.comINTERNET Degrees 1984, 1993 Post Masters Aeronautical Engineering Bio Grew up in Key West, UF Navy ROTC, Naval Aviator, Pilot (F/A-18 and others), 28 years in the Navy retiring as a Captain. Commanded the Naval Strike Test Squadron as well as the Naval Air Warfare Center for training systems. Upon retiring in 2012, started my own company as a Aerospace and Defense business coach. I also conduct leadership workshops and serve as an executive coach as a certified John Maxwell Executive Director and have a very diverse client base. View Profile David Troner Aircraft Design Engineer at Boeing david.troner@gmail.comINTERNET Degrees 2018 M.S. Aerospace Engineering 2015 B.S. Aerospace Engineering 2015 B.S. Mechanical Engineering Bio David works as an aircraft design engineer within the Advanced Concepts group of Boeings Commercial Airplanes division in Long Beach, CA. In this role, David designs and analyses future configuration and propulsion architectures for commercial aircraft. David also works within the Boeing AvionX organization as a GNC and software development engineer, and previously worked at Northrop Grumman as a GNC engineer. David got his Bachelors in Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering at UF followed by a Masters in Aerospace Engineering at Stanford, where he focused in conceptual aircraft design. In his time at the University of Florida, David co-founded the AeroGators organization and was involved with AIAA and Theta Tau. David also did undergraduate research with Dr. Rick Lind. In his free time, David enjoys hiking, scuba diving, skiing, and playing soccer, and is a private pilot in both fixed-wing and helicopters. View Profile Carol Weber Director, Technology Development, Gates Corp carol@augustgram.comINTERNET Degrees 2001 PhD Operations Research 1992 MSME Mechcanical Engineering 1983 BSME Mechanical Engineering Bio Currently, Im working in the consumer goods industry but am most proud of my time at Kennedy Space Center as a Propulsion and Life Support Engineer, where I led a team of engineers that solved an impossible task for astronaut rescue that was a return to flight mandate after a space shuttle explosion. It was technically and politically monstrous with plenty of failed experiments before we had a breakthrough. It is not the failures at solving the impossible tasks that define us; it is the tenacity to find another way to succeed. For fun I race in half ironman distance triathlons and yes this is my definition of fun. Truthfully, sometimes I wonder why I keep doing these races because the course is out to beat you, it is relentless, it is painful and all the training done in preparation doesnt seem enough. But I dont quit. Every race is dedicated to my daughter who is a survivor of childhood disease, a school shooting and a chronic illness that limits her life. She does not complain so it would be trivial for me to complain about my self-induced pains. Entering the last phase of my career I want to ignite a generation of technical women to take on the hardest tasks, take risks and move society forward on our biggest challenges in education equity. We need all of our talented young minds engaged in solving new impossible challenges. If we screen out people by gender or color we are limiting the possibilities and lowering our chance for transformation. View Profile University of Florida Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Contact Information Stay In Touch! Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering PO Box 116250 Gainesville FL, 32611 Tel: 352-392-0961 Fax: 352-392-7303 UF Resources UF News UF Calendar myUFL One.UF Directory Campus Weather Campus Map Student Tours Academic Calendar Events Website UF Website Listing Accessibility Text-Only Version Privacy Policy Regulations MAKE A DONATION Accessibility B&C Contrasts Dark Contrasts White Stop Movement Readable Font Underline Links A A A cancel accessibility Provided by:
