Dipanjan Basu | Civil and Environmental Engineering | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Civil and Environmental Engineering home About Civil and Environmental Engineering Our People Programs ResearchEnvironmental and water resources Geotechnical Structures mechanics and construction engineering Transportation CEE Laboratories Computing resourcesHow to CommitteesCEECC ECC ESAG ServicesBooking Rooms Computer Labs Policies FAQRemote Desktop FAQ Contact IT Health and safetyMandatory Safety Training Field Work Risk Management Activities Laboratory Work Standard Operating Procedures Departmental Health & Safety Committee Career Opportunities News Events Accreditation Contact us Current undergraduate studentsFirst-year students Program Curriculum Charts Funding and awardsCEE Scholarships & Awards Forms Work Term Reports Academic advisors CEE Exam Regulations and Procedures About to graduate Future undergraduate studentsHow to apply Jobs in Civil and Environmental Engineering Student Life Programs comparison chart Current graduate studentsChecklist for new students Policies and procedures- How to submit a MASc thesis and schedule a MASc defense - How to schedule a PhD comprehensive exam - How to schedule and submit a PhD defense Graduate forms Graduate courses Funding and awards Seminar, defense, and comp exam announcements Student Profiles Future graduate studentsPrograms How to apply Student life Applicant FAQ Alumni and FriendsHire a student Resources and contacts Faculty and StaffDepartment Addendum for Faculty Performance Evaluation Guidelines TA/CA Evaluations UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Civil and Environmental Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering home About Civil and Environmental Engineering Our People Programs Research CEE Laboratories Computing resources Health and safety Career Opportunities News Events Accreditation Contact us Information for Current undergraduate students Future undergraduate students Current graduate students Future graduate students Alumni and Friends Faculty and Staff TA/CA Evaluations COVID-19 updates: University of WaterlooCoronavirus Informationwebsite See list of Faculty of Engineering Modified Services Civil and Environmental Engineering Dipanjan Basu Associate ProfessorContact InformationEmail: d3basu@uwaterloo.caPhone: 519-888-4567 x31284Location: E2 2306Biography SummaryProfessor DIPANJAN BASU is an Associate Professor in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of Waterloo (Waterloo, ON, Canada). Prior to his current appointment, Professor Basu was an Assistant Professor at the University of Connecticut (Storrs, CT, U.S.A.). He was also a Postdoctoral Researcher at Purdue University (West Lafayette, IN, U.S.A.). Professor Basu received his Bachelors degree in Civil Engineering with honors from Jadavpur University (Kolkata, India). After a short stint as a Trainee Engineer in Development Consultants Limited (Kolkata, India), he joined the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (Kanpur, India) from where he received his Masters degree in Civil Engineering with specialization in Geotechnical Engineering. Subsequently, he joined Purdue University and obtained his second Masters and Doctoral degrees. Professor Basu has a broad research interest that includes Energy Geotechnics, Sustainability and Resilience Quantification in Geotechnical Engineering, Soil Constitutive Modeling, Foundations and Soil Structure Interaction, Blast Analysis of Geo-structures, Thermal Management of Rock Stress, Probabilistic Analysis, Soil Dynamics, and Ground Improvement. He has over seventy five publications in peer reviewed journals and conference proceedings. Professor Basu has delivered several invited and keynote lectures in the U.S.A., Canada, India, and Kazakhstan. He has also delivered short courses in the U.S.A. and Ethiopia. Professor Basu is a member of Tau Beta Pi, and is a recipient of the Telford Premium Award (U.K.), Fugro Fellowship (U.S.A.), ExCEEd Teaching Fellowship (U.S.A.), and Prof. S. Neogi Award (India). He is the chair of the ISSMGE technical committee on Sustainability in Geotechnical Engineering, and vice-chairs of the ASCE-GI technical committee on Sustainability in Geotechnical Engineering and the CGS technical committee on Sustainable Geotechnics. Professor Basu served as an Associate Editor of the ASCE Journal of Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering.Research InterestsSoil BehaviorPile FoundationsConstitutive ModelingSoil Structure InteractionGeothermal EnergySustainability AssessmentSoil DynamicsLoad and Resistance Factor DesignGround ImprovementProbabilistic AnalysisEnergy harvesting/bio-energyEnergy storageRenewable energyEducation2006, Doctorate, Civil Engineering, Purdue University2006, Master's, Civil Engineering, Purdue University2001, Master's, Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur1997, Bachelor's, Civil Engineering, Jadavpur UniversityCourses*CIVE 497 - Special Topics in Civil EngineeringTaught in 2015, 2017CIVE 554 - Geotechnical Engineering 3Taught in 2016CIVE 750 - Topics in Geotechnical EngineeringTaught in 2016, 2019CIVE 653 - Numerical Methods in GeomechanicsTaught in 2015, 2016, 2018CIVE 400 - Civil Engineering Design Project 1Taught in 2018CIVE 354 - Geotechnical Engineering 2Taught in 2018CIVE 353 - Geotechnical Engineering 1Taught in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019* Only courses taught in the past 5 years are displayed.Selected/Recent PublicationsGupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Dynamic analysis of axially loaded end-bearing pile in a homogeneous viscoelastic soil, Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering, 111, 31-40., 2018Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Timoshenko beam theory based dynamic analysis of laterally loaded piles in multilayered viscoelastic soil, Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE 144(9), 04018091., 2018Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Applicability of Timoshenko, Euler-Bernoulli, and rigid beam theories in analysis of laterally loaded monopiles and piles., Gotechnique (published online)., 2018Lee, M. and Basu, D., An integrated approach for resilience and sustainability in geotechnical engineering, Indian Geotechnical Journal, 48(2), 207-234, 2018Haldar, S., Sharma, J. and Basu, D., Probabilistic analysis of monopile-supported offshore wind turbine in clay, Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering, 105, 171-183., 2018Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Analysis of laterally loaded short and long piles in multilayered heterogeneous elastic soil, Soils and Foundations, 57, 92-110., 2017Gupta, Bipin Kumar and Basu, Dipanjan, Response of Laterally Loaded Rigid Monopiles and Poles in Multilayered Elastic Soil, Canadian Geotechnical Journal, 2016Gupta, Bipin K. and Basu, Dipanjan, Analysis of laterally loaded short and long piles in multilayered heterogeneous elastic Soil, Soils and FoundationsHaldar, S. and Basu, D. (2016). Analysis of beams on heterogeneous and nonlinear soil. International Journal of Geomechanics, ASCE (accepted). (Accepted in 2015)Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D. (2016). Analysis of laterally loaded rigid monopiles and poles in multilayered linearly varying soil. Computers and Geotechnics, 72, 114-125. (Accepted in 2015)Basu, Dipanjan and Misra, Aditi and Puppala, Anand J, Sustainability and geotechnical engineering: perspectives and review, Canadian Geotechnical Journal, 52(1), 2014, 96 - 113Mishra, S., Chakraborty, T., Matsagar, V. and Basu, D., Experimental characterization of Himalayan limestone, Third International Conference on Rock Dynamics and Applications (RocDyn-3), 2018Elhuni, H. and Basu, D., A new soil structure interaction model for moving loads., 71th Canadian Geotechnical Conference - GeoEdmonton 2018, 2018Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Nonlinear elastic analysis of laterally loaded piles, 71th Canadian Geotechnical Conference GeoEdmonton 2018, 2018Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Dynamic analysis of laterally loaded end-bearing piles in homogeneous viscoelastic soil using Timoshenko beam theory, International Foundations Congress and Equipment Expo (IFCEE) 2018, 2018Lee, M. and Basu, D., Environmental impacts of drilled shafts and driven piles in sand, International Foundations Congress and Equipment Expo (IFCEE) 2018, 2018Roy, S., Sahu, R. B., Dan, K. and Basu, D., Time effect on ground deformation around braced excavation., Indian Geotechnical Conference 2017 (GeoNEst), 2017Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Dynamic analysis of rigid monopiles in multi-layered viscoelastic soil, 70th Canadian Geotechnical Conference - GeoOttawa 2017, 2017Gupta, B. K. and Basu, D., Dynamic analysis of axially loaded pile embedded in homogeneous viscoelastic soil and resting on a rigid base, Indian Geotechnical Conference 2017 (GeoNEst), 2017Lee, M. and Basu, D., Assessing resilience and sustainability of transportation networks with geotechnical perspectives, 70th Canadian Geotechnical Conference - GeoOttawa 2017, 2017Basu, D. and Lee, M., A quantitative framework for sustainability and resilience in geotechnical engineering., Geotechnics for Natural and Engineered Sustainable technologies by Krishna, A. M., Dey, A. and Sreedeep, S. (Eds.), Springer, 399-411, Recent Initiatives on Geothermal Energy Research at Waterloo. Invited Lecture at 2018 Great Lakes SedHeat Incubator Workshop, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A., February 2018.A Continuum-based Soil-Structure Interaction Analysis Framework for Shallow and Deep Foundations. Invited Lecture at University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa, August 2018.Applicability of Timoshenko, Euler-Bernoulli, and Rigid Beam Theories in Analysis of Laterally Loaded Monopiles and Piles. Invited Open Lecture at University of Cape Town, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa, July 2017."Pile Foundations and Load and Resistance Factor Design. Invited Lecture at Gitam University, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India, August 2017.An Integrated Approach towards Sustainability and Resilience in Geotechnical Engineering. Invited Lecture at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India, August 2017.Resistance Factor Development for LRFD of Axially Loaded Piles. Invited Lecture at Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Kharagpur, West Bengal, India, July 2017."A Framework for Assessment of Sustainability and Resilience from a Geotechnical Perspective. Invited Lecture at Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad, Kandi, Sangareddy, Telengana, India, March 2017.Basu, D., Sustainability and Geotechnical Engineering, nvited Lecture at the Meeting of Kolkata Center of Indian Concrete Institute, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, West Bengal, India, June 2016., Basu, D., Sustainability and Geotechnical Engineering, Invited Lecture at Development Consultants Limited, Salt Lake, Kolkata, West Bengal, India, June 2016., Puppala, A. J., Basu, D., Cuisinier, O. and Das, J. T., General report of TC 307 - sustainability in geotechnical engineering, Lord, F., Duhan, J., Lee, M., Miller, L., Basu, D., Dusseault, M. and Tharumalingam, A., First-order assessment of the potential of compressed air energy storage in salt caverns across Canada, CIV5143Z Rock Mechanics (taught as a block course - August 27-31, 2018) at University of Cape Town, Cape Town, Western Cape, South AfricaCVL717 Plasticity and Constitutive Modeling of Soil with Applications in Finite Element Analysis (co-taught), Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi, India, December 18-22, 2017 - offered under Global Initiative of Academic Networks (GIAN) program of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of IndiaCIV5122Z Advanced Soil Mechanics (taught as a block course - July 17-21, 2017) - At University of Cape Town, Cape Town, Western Cape, South AfricaAn Integrated Soil Structure Interaction Framework for Static, Dynamic, Nonlinear, and Spatially Random Problems. Keynote Lecture at the 15th Young Geotechnical Engineers Symposium, British Geotechnical Association, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, U.K., July 2018.A Quantitative Framework for Sustainability and Resilience in Geotechnical Engineering. Invited Sub-theme Lecture at Indian Geotechnical Conference 2017 (GeoNEst), Guwahati, Assam, India, December 2017 TOP Share University of Waterloo 200 University Ave W, Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1 Phone:(519) 888-4567 Staff and Faculty DirectoryContact the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Support Waterloo Engineering Waterloo EngineeringFaculty OpeningsProvide WebsiteFeedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
