People | University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science deadline event featured list timeline open-book pencil-paper dummy arrow checkbox chevron close fetus fingerprint hamburger heartbeat magnifying-glass minus plane plus ribbon search shape skinny-arrow trophy uva-engineering-logo uva-seas-logo venus-symbol molecule award calendar contact email home left-arrow lightbulb news publications research youtube linkedin instagram twitter facebook Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science | Homepage Biomedical Engineering Search Submit PeopleFacultyStaffResearchApplyAcademicsGraduateUndergraduate Nationally Funded Student Training ProgramsBMESDiversityNewsAboutContinuityContact and DirectionsFinal Exercises 2020BME 50th AnniversaryA History of BME at UVAGive Jump to Footer HomeDepartmentsBiomedical EngineeringPeople People Find Faculty View All Faculty Find Faculty by Research Strength Toggle display of child links Biomedical and Molecular Imaging Image Reconstructionand Processing Machine Learning and Data Science Advanced Biomanufacturing Biomechanics and Mechanobiology Biotechnology Systems Biology Cardiovascular Disease Targeted Drug and Gene Delivery Find Faculty by Appointment Toggle display of child links Primary Appointment Joint Appointment Courtesy Appointment Emeritus Status View: A B C D E F G H i J K L M N o P q R S t u v w x y Z Allen, Timothy E. Allen, Timothy E. Associate Professor, Director, Systems Bioengineering and Biomedical Data Science REU Timothy E. Allen teaches and mentors students in the areas of computational modeling of complex biological systems, molecular and cell biology assays, and medical device design. He is an Associate Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of Virginia. He received a... Read More teallen@virginia.edu Google Scholar NSF REU in Multi-scale Systems Bioengineering BME Design Barker, Thomas H. Barker, Thomas H. Professor Thomas Barker explores and therapeutically exploits the fundamental links between fibroblast adaptation to their physical and biochemical microenvironment and their myofibroblastic differentiation during tissue repair, fibrosis and cancer. Dr. Barker is a Professor in Biomedical Engineering in... Read More thomas.barker@virginia.edu Google Scholar Matrix Biology and Engineering Lab Barker, Shannon Barker, Shannon Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Undergraduate Progam Director Shannon Barker, Ph.D., focuses on ensuring that the BME undergraduate program's educational objectives and learning outcomes, as well as its curriculum, reflect an innovative and highly effective learning environment that meets the needs of all of its students, as well as employers, graduate... Read More shannon.barker@virginia.edu BME Undergraduate Programs Shannon's LinkedIn Profile Shannon's CV Berger, Bryan Berger, Bryan Associate Professor Bryan received his BS in chemical engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and his PhD in chemical engineering from the University of Delaware. He was a post-doctoral fellow in the department of biochemistry & biophysics at the University of Pennsylvania School of... Read More bryan.berger@virginia.edu Google Scholar Addgene - Berger Laboratory Plasmids Blemker, Silvia Salinas Blemker, Silvia Salinas Professor of Biomedical Engineering Silvia Blemker uses experimental and computational models to characterize the relationships between muscle structure, biomechanical properties, biology, and function in order to develop new treatments for musculoskeletal disease. She did her undergraduate and Masters work in Biomedical... Read More ssblemker@virginia.edu Google Scholar Multiscale Muscle Mechanophysiology (M3) Lab Springbok, Inc Bourne, Philip E. Bourne, Philip E. Founding Dean, School of Data Science, Professor of Biomedical Engineering Philip E. Bourne leads a range of initiatives to encourage and facilitate the use of big data in large-scale research across the scientific and technological disciplines, with special emphasis on structural bioinformatics and systems pharmacology. He is the Founding Dean of the School of Data... Read More peb6a@virginia.edu Google Scholar School of Data Science Phil's Wikipedia Page Biomedical Data Sciences Research at UVA Caliari, Steven R. Caliari, Steven R. Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Steve Caliari engineers dynamic biomaterials to explore the interplay between cells and their microenvironment, in particular for the repair of musculoskeletal tissues and for studying the biophysical factors involved in fibrosis and cancer. Steven joined the faculty of the University of... Read More caliari@virginia.edu Google Scholar Caliari Lab Website Chen, David Chen, David Coulter Program Director and Instructor in Design The founding program director of the UVA- Coulter Translational Partnership, David Chen began his career at ImClone Systems, where he worked closely with both European regulatory agencies as well as the FDA. He holds a Master of Science in Cell and Developmental Biology from Rutgers University/... Read More davidchen@virginia.edu Christ, George Joseph Christ, George Joseph Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Orthopaedic Surgery, Mary Muilenburg Stamp Professor of Orthopaedic Research, Director of Basic and Translational Research in Orthopaedic Surgery, Fellow of AIMBE Dr. Christ develops basic and translational tissue engineering and regenerative medicine approaches to organ and tissue repair, reconstruction and replacement, with a focus on the musculoskeletal system, vasculature and lower urinary tract. Dr. Christ is an internationally recognized expert in... Read More gjc8w@virginia.edu Christ Lab Loop Profile Video Gallery Civelek, Mete Civelek, Mete Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Resident Faculty, Center for Public Health Genomics Mete Civelek uses big data analytics to understand the molecular pathways of disease and develops personalized medicine approaches to cardiovascular and metabolic disorders. He is an assistant professor of Biomedical Engineering and a resident faculty at the Center for Public Health Genomics at... Read More mete@virginia.edu Google Scholar Civelek Laboratory Website Biomedical Data Sciences and Systems Biology at UVA Dolatshahi, Sepideh Dolatshahi, Sepideh Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Research in the Dolatshahi lab combines multiplex experimental measurements with computational methods (including statistical machine learning, network inference, information theory, signal processing and kinetic-dynamic modeling) to solve problems in the context of cancer, infectious disease... Read More sdolatshahi@virginia.edu Google Scholar Biomedical Data Science and Systems Biology at UVA Epstein, Frederick H. Epstein, Frederick H. Mac Wade Professor and Chair of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology and Medical Imaging Dr. Epstein is recognized for his contributions to the field of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. He has been a world leader in advancing MRI myocardial strain imaging by developing and applying the cine DENSE (displacement encoding using stimulated echoes) MRI method. He has also made... Read More fhe6b@Virginia.edu Google Scholar Biomedical Imaging at UVA BME Research Landing Page Fallahi-Sichani, Mohammad Fallahi-Sichani, Mohammad Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Research in the Fallahi-Sichani laboratory aims at designing, building and utilizing new experimental and computational tools, as means to discover fundamental mechanisms that regulate the behavior of human cells in response to perturbations, such as cytokines, environmental stress, and... Read More fallahi@virginia.edu Google Scholar Fallahi-Sichani Lab Biomedical Data Sciences and Systems Biology Research at UVA French, Brent A., Ph.D. French, Brent A., Ph.D. Professor of Biomedical Engineering Brent A. French combines advanced methods of targeted drug and gene delivery with biomedical imaging in vivo to explore novel targets and treatment strategies in cardiovascular disease and cancer. Research interests of the Molecular Bioengineering Lab focus on developing new, more effective... Read More bf4g@virginia.edu Griffin, Donald Richieri Griffin, Donald Richieri Assistant Professor Donald Griffin improves clinical translation of acellular and cellular therapies through enhanced hydrogel-tissue integration, specifically focusing on the development of passive and active instructional microenvironments using microscale building blocks. He is an Assistant Professor in the... Read More drgriffin@virginia.edu Google Scholar Griffin Lab Website Guilford, William H. Guilford, William H. Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, School of Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering Will Guilford uses molecular biomechanics and engineering design to better understand and better prevent the movement of single cells and the spread of drug-resistant pathogens. He attended Saint Francis College in Fort Wayne Indiana where he double-majored in Biology and Chemistry. He... Read More guilford@virginia.edu Google Scholar Researchgate UVA Online Graduate Engineering Helmke, Brian P. Helmke, Brian P. Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, UVA Engineering Director of Undergraduate Research Brian Helmke researches the relationship between cell mechanics and cell function using new tools in materials science and molecular biology, with a focus on cardiovascular disease. Living cells and tissues adapt to their environment by altering structure, gene and protein expression,... Read More helmke@virginia.edu Highley, Christopher B. Highley, Christopher B. Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Chemical Engineering Christopher Highley develops materials and fabrication technologies to enable the design and construction of complex cellular and material systems, with the goal of addressing fundamental and translational problems in biomedicine. Research in the Highley Lab focuses on the design, application,... Read More highley@virginia.edu Google Scholar Highley Lab webpage Hossack, John A. Hossack, John A. Professor John A. Hossack develops ultrasound imaging approaches for cardiovascular disease, including mouse heart imaging, catheter-based imaging and drug delivery, and molecular imaging for diagnosing stroke risk. He obtained B.Eng. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University... Read More jh7fj@virginia.edu Hossack Lab Janes, Kevin Janes, Kevin Professor Kevin Janes designs and uses new experimental and computational approaches for analyzing cell signaling and transcriptional networks in cancer and infectious disease. He received his B.S. and B.A. degrees in Biomedical Engineering and Spanish at Johns Hopkins University in 1999. He was a... Read More kjanes@virginia.edu Google Scholar Janes Lab Website Kasson, Peter Kasson, Peter Associate Professor of Molecular Physiology and of Biomedical Engineering Peter Kasson addresses fundamental questions about infectious disease by studying the membrane biology of virus-host cell interactions using both computational models and experimental approaches. He received his MD and PhD from Stanford University, where he worked on antigen presentation with... Read More kasson@virginia.edu Google Scholar Kasson Laboratory Kelly, Kimberly A. Kelly, Kimberly A. Professor of Biomedical Engineering Kimberly Kelly develops phage-based nanoparticle techniques for diagnostic imaging, drug target identification, and drug delivery in the setting of pancreatic cancer. Dr. Kelly received her Bachelors degree in Chemistry from Hamilton College in upstate NY, and her PhD from the University of... Read More kkelly@virginia.edu Google Scholar Cardiovascular Research Center Kelly Laboratory Lazzara, Matthew J. Lazzara, Matthew J. Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering Matthew Lazzara received a B.S. in Chemical Engineering (with highest honors) from the University of Florida and a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he trained in the lab of William Deen. He remained at MIT for postdoctoral studies in the lab of... Read More mlazzara@virginia.edu The Lazzara Lab Meyer, Craig H. Meyer, Craig H. Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Professor of Radiology and Medical Imaging Craig Meyer develops magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques for rapid acquisition and processing of image data in the setting of cardiovascular disease, neural diseases, and pediatrics, using tools in physics, signal processing, image reconstruction, and machine learning. Read More cmeyer@virginia.edu Google Scholar Rapid MRI Research Group Naegle, Kristen Naegle, Kristen Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Computer Science Kristen Naegle uses data- and computational-driven approaches to predict, and experimental approaches to test, the regulation and function of tyrosine phosphorylation in complex networks. Tyrosine phosphorylation is a protein modification that can occur during or after translation of a protein.... Read More kmn4mj@virginia.edu Google Scholar Naegle Lab Pubmed Papin, Jason Papin, Jason Professor Jason Papin develops computational models of cellular networks and performing high-throughput experiments to characterize biological systems relevant to human disease. After his training in Bioengineering at the University of California, San Diego, Jason Papin joined the faculty at the... Read More papin@virginia.edu Google Scholar Computational Systems Biology Laboratory Engineering Research Center for Systems Biology (CfSB) Peirce-Cottler, Shayn Peirce-Cottler, Shayn Professor of Biomedical Engineering Shayn Peirce-Cottler combines experimental and computational models to design novel therapies for regenerating microvascular networks in diabetes, wound healing, and cardiovascular disease. Dr. Peirce-Cottler was born in Madison, Wisconsin and raised in Chapel Hill, NC. She received Bachelors of... Read More shayn@virginia.edu Peirce-Cottler Laboratory UVA Center for Advanced Biomanufacturing Price, Richard J. Price, Richard J. Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Research Director, UVa Focused Ultrasound Center Rchard Price develops ultrasound-activated drug and gene delivery systems for treating cancer and Parkinsons disease and investigates the mechanisms through which collateral arteries grow and adapt in response to changes in blood flow. Early in his career, Dr. Price performed seminal studies... Read More rprice@virginia.edu Google Scholar Price Lab Website Focused Ultrasound in the Clinic at UVA Rohde, Gustavo Kunde Rohde, Gustavo Kunde Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Electrical and Computer Engineering Dr. Rohde develops computational predictive models using machine learning and signal and image processing with applications in pathology, radiology, systems biology, and mobile sensing. He earned B.S. degrees in physics and mathematics in 1999, and the M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering in... Read More gustavo@virginia.edu Google Scholar Rohde Lab Website Biomedical Data Sciences and Systems Biology Research at UVA Rosen, Jonathan, PhD Rosen, Jonathan, PhD Professor of the Practice in Biomedical Engineering, Director of Professional Studies Dr. Jonathan Rosen teaches and guides graduate Biomedical Engineers as they design their future and advance our standard of healthcare with breakthrough medical technologies. He is the Director of Professional Studies and Professor of Practice in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at the... Read More jjrosen@virginia.edu BME Master of Engineering at UVA Saucerman, Jeffrey Saucerman, Jeffrey Professor of Biomedical Engineering Our lab combines computational modeling and high-throughput experiments to discover molecular networks and drugs that control cardiac remodeling and regeneration. Our experimental approaches include high-throughput microscopy and -omic profiling of primary and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC... Read More jsaucerman@virginia.edu Google Scholar PubMed Google Scholar Cardiac Systems Pharmacology Group Zhang, Aidong Zhang, Aidong William Wulf Faculty Fellow and Professor, Computer Science, Biomedical Engineering, and Data Science Aidong Zhang develops data mining and machine learning approaches to modeling and analysis of structured and unstructured data with a variety of applications, especially biomedical applications. Dr. Zhang is a William Wulf Faculty Fellow and Professor of Computer Science, with a joint... Read More aidong@virginia.edu Homepage Zhang's Research Group Zunder, Eli Zunder, Eli Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering Eli Zunder analyzes stem cell fate using single cell mass cytometry and high-dimensional modeling of cell lineage trajectories. He received his Ph.D. in Biophysics from UCSF in 2009. There, he worked in... Read More ezunder@Virginia.edu Google Scholar Zunder Lab Find Faculty View All Faculty Find Faculty by Research Strength Toggle display of child links Biomedical and Molecular Imaging Image Reconstructionand Processing Machine Learning and Data Science Advanced Biomanufacturing Biomechanics and Mechanobiology Biotechnology Systems Biology Cardiovascular Disease Targeted Drug and Gene Delivery Find Faculty by Appointment Toggle display of child links Primary Appointment Joint Appointment Courtesy Appointment Emeritus Status Apply Now Visit Grounds Give to Engineering Jump to Header University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science | Homepage Find FacultyNewsEventsJobs@UVADirectoryvirginia.edu Thornton Hall, P.O. Box 400259, Charlottesville, VA 22904-4259 Phone: 434-924-3072 MediaPrivacy PolicyNon-discrimination PolicyAccessibility Like Us on FacebookFollow Us on TwitterFollow Us on InstagramFollow Us on LinkedInSubscribe to our channel on YouTube 2020 University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science
