Dr. Moon Kim - Endowed Chairs and Professorships - The University of Texas at Dallas Skip to Main Content. Skip to Main Navigation. Skip to Main Footer. The University of Texas at Dallas Endowed Chairs and Professorships Menu Home About Donors Biographies Search UTD Dr. Moon Kim School of Arts, Technology, and Emerging CommunicationErik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science An anonymous donor established the professorship in 2009 to support the research and scholarly activities of a faculty member in the Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science. As an expert in nanotechnology in the 1990s, Kim became one of the first researchers in the world to build an ultra-high vacuum wafer bonding instrument. That machine, now housed in the Natural Science and Engineering Laboratory, was a cornerstone to enabling groundbreaking research in the region, international collaborations and the attainment of more advanced equipment and world class professors. We invested and built our nanomaterial characterization facilities from scratch, and now UT Dallas capabilities are, if not the best, one of the best in the state of the Texas. Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Louis Beecherl Jr. Distinguished Professor Dr. Moon Kims research and technical expertise focus on nanofabrication and the manipulation and characterization of materials and devices for electronic and photonic applications. His expertise includes high-resolution electron microscopy, wafer bonding technology, 3-D functional nanostructures and nanodevices. Kim has been instrumental in forming research collaborations with industry and other universities in the United States and abroad. One such collaboration was Texas FUSION (Future Semiconductor Commercialization), whose two biggest grants for the initial $14.4 million consortium included $6 million from the South Korean government and $5 million from the Texas Emerging Technology Fund. Texas FUSION research projects include nanostructures for medical and defense applications; flexible electronic structures for defense and entertainment applications; and large-scale non-volatile information storage and retrieval devices. In 2014, Texas FUSION became InFUSION, with even more international research collaborations and a focus on flexible electronics. One of Kims passions is educating children about science and engineering. He is the author of books aimed at making children aware of nanotechnology available to them in their everyday lives. Kim is also a professor in the Arts and Technology Program, in which his students have helped create interactive electronic versions of these books and other apps. To a lot of people, science is too difficult, engineering is too hard and only studied by geeks, he said. We need to change the perception and let children know science is actually fun and that they enjoy nanotechnology everyday. Kim earned his bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees and completed postdoctoral work at Arizona State University. He is one of the few materials scientists chosen to become a fellow of the Microscopy Society of America. The University of Texas at Dallas 800 W. Campbell Road, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021 | 972 883-2111 Accessibility|Required Links|Emergency Preparedness|UT System Questions or commentsabout this page?
