Dr. Julia W. P. Hsu - Endowed Chairs and Professorships - The University of Texas at Dallas Skip to Main Content. Skip to Main Navigation. Skip to Main Footer. The University of Texas at Dallas Endowed Chairs and Professorships Menu Home About Donors Biographies Search UTD Dr. Julia W. P. Hsu Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer Science A gift from Texas Instruments Inc. in July 2007 created the chair, which Hsu assumed in September 2010. The position supports research and scholarly activities that achieve the objectives of the Southwest Academy of Nanoelectronics (SWAN). Hsu was recently elected as a fellow in the Materials Research Society (MRS). She was the first UT Dallas faculty member so honored. UT Dallas offers tremendous opportunities for me to continue advancing my research activities. The research facilities, including the Cleanroom Research Laboratory and characterization facilities at the Natural Science and Engineering Research Laboratory, are world-class and provide invaluable resources to faculty and students in pursuing forefront research. Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Texas Instruments Distinguished Chair in Nanoelectronics Dr. W.P. Julia Hsus research focuses on nanoscale materials physics. She has done extensive work on nanoscale characterization of electronic and photonic materials and devices using scanning probe techniques. Hsu also studies the chemical, structural and electrical properties at the interfaces of dissimilar materials such as between metals and organics. When combining different classes of materials, new models and even language have to be developed, she said. While challenging, advancing our knowledge of dissimilar material interfaces has dramatic impact on future electronic and optical devices. Hsu currently focuses on interfacial issues in organic and hybrid solar cells, which have potential for lightweight mobile power applications in military and consumer electronics. Previously a scientist in the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies at Sandia National Labs, Hsu joined UT Dallas in 2010. I have been impressed by students who are working full time while seeking an advanced degree, she said. They show incredible dedication and discipline. Hsu received her bachelors degree in chemical engineering from Princeton University in 1985 and her masters and doctorate in physics from Stanford University in 1987 and 1991, respectively. Hsus other honors include the American Physical Society Apker Award, a National Science Foundation Young Investigator Award and a Sloan Foundation Research Fellowship. She was elected as a fellow of the American Physical Society in 2001, of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 2007 and MRS in 2011. She has been an organizer of the Electronic Materials Conference since 1997 and served as a member-at-large on the APS Division of Materials Physics Executive Committee (2004-2007), on the MRS Board of Directors (2005-2007), the treasurer and chair of the Operation Oversight Committee for the MRS (2006-2007), and was on the editorial board ofSolid State Communications. The University of Texas at Dallas 800 W. Campbell Road, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021 | 972 883-2111 Accessibility|Required Links|Emergency Preparedness|UT System Questions or commentsabout this page?
