Faculty Profile for Bradley A. Minch, Ph.D. | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Faculty Profiles Full-Time Faculty Members Bradley A. Minch Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News November 9, 2020 Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Read More October 19, 2020 Barabino Elected to National Academy of Medicine Read More October 15, 2020 SCOPE 2020-2021: COVID-19 Cant Stop These Students from Making an Impact Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Bradley A. Minch, Ph.D. Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Milas Hall 354 781-292-2566 bradley.minch@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Computation and Neural Systems program, Calfornia Institute of Technology, 1997 B.S., Electrical Engineering, Cornell University, 1991 Select Courses TaughtElecanismsIntroduction to Microelectonic CircuitsPrinciples of EngineeringResearchAnalog and mixed-signal design Biography Prior to joining the Olin College faculty, Dr. Minch was an Assistant Professor at Cornell University in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, where he was the recipient of three teaching awards and one freshman advising award. In 2000, he received an Early CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation. The award recognizes the early career-development activities of teacher-scholars who are most likely to become the academic leaders of the 21st century, and is very prestigious. Dr. Minch's research interests are in the areas of analog and mixed-signal integrated circuit design. Translinear circuits, log-domain filters, floating-gate circuits, and neuromorphic circuits are among the topics covered in his published journal papers and conference presentations. Dr. Minch received his Ph.D. in 1997 from the Computation and Neural Systems program at the California Institute of Technology. In 1991, he received his B.S. in electrical engineering from Cornell University. His outside interests include origami, stained glass and electronics. He is an analog circuit designer who believes that there are still plenty of little circuits waiting to be discovered and that a circuit can be an end in itself and a thing of beauty. He is also the father of two beautiful boys, Jadyn and Allen, who both have bright red hair and a seemingly unfathomable amount of energy. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
