Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Media Contacts For press inquiries and other news-related questions please click here. Read More Olin in the news For recent media coverage please click here. Read More Media Contacts For press inquiries and other news-related questions please click here. Read More Olin in the news For recent media coverage please click here. Read More Share This Pageemailfacebooklinkedintwittergoogle+pinterest Return To News Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College 09 November, Monday Olin College of Engineering announced that Mark Somerville has been named the Colleges newprovostand dean of faculty, effective immediately. Inthis capacity, Somerville will serve as the colleges chief academic officer. I am thrilled that Mark accepted this position. He has ably guided the Colleges academic programs throughout almost two years of transition as interim provost, said President Gilda Barabino. His innovative spirit and his deep respect for Olin, its culture and its people will be invaluable as we face the future. Mark will work closelywith meas we continueto develop the frameworkthat will allow us tocraftthe strategic direction for Olins next decade. I am deeply honored and excited to join President Barabinos team and to step into the provost role. I came to Olin almost two decades ago because I was deeply committed to and inspired by the idea of rethinking and driving change in education, and I accepted the provost position for exactly the same reasons. In2001, Somerville joined Olin College as an assistant professorofelectrical engineering and physics.Heplayedan important role in designingstudent and faculty experiences at Olin, including many ofthe innovative colleges firstclasses. Over the past 19 years, Somerville hasbeenextensivelyinvolved infurther developing Olins curriculum as well as teaching many of Olins foundational courses.Hemade major contributions tothe creation of Olins SummerInstitute, the redesign of Olins reappointment and promotion process,andthe development of Olins first majorpartnership withthe University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.Most recently, he co-led Olins effort to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to his work inside Olin College, Somerville has collaborated around the world to apply Olins learnings to the design and development of new academic programs, from Fulbright University in Ho Chi Minh City to the Woodrow Wilson Academy in Boston to NMITE, a new engineering school in Hereford, England. Somerville is also co-author of A Whole New Engineer: The Coming Revolution in Engineering Education. Prior to coming to Olin, Somerville taught physics at Vassar College. His technical background focuses on high-speed semiconductor devices, with particular emphasis on measurement and physical modeling of performance limitations. As Olin College enters its third decade and seeks new challenges related to changing engineering education, Somerville will work closely with President Barabino to design and implement the plan. About the Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering Founded in 1997, Olin instills passion and ignites innovation in its students and prepares them to envision, create and deliver products, services and systems that transform and improve peoples lives around the world. Olin teaches students to be explorers and creators who design their own path forward. By challenging norms and sharing its unique approach to education, Olin is revolutionizing the way engineers, and all undergraduates, learn and create knowledge. Located in Needham, Massachusetts, Olin is ranked among the top three undergraduate engineering programs in the country by U.S. News & World Report. Learn more at Olin.edu. Academic Calendars 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 Want to post an event? Please complete this FORM to have your group activity added to the calendar. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
