Faculty Profile for Amon Millner, Ph.D. | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Faculty Profiles Full-Time Faculty Members Amon Millner Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News November 9, 2020 Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Read More October 19, 2020 Barabino Elected to National Academy of Medicine Read More October 15, 2020 SCOPE 2020-2021: COVID-19 Cant Stop These Students from Making an Impact Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Amon Millner, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computing and Innovation Milas Hall 323 On Leave 781-292-2527 amon.millner@olin.edu @admillner EducationPh.D., Media Arts and Sciences, MIT, 2010 M.S., Human Computer Interactions, Georgia Tech, 2003 B.S., Computer Science, USC, 2001 Select Courses TaughtDesigning Resources for Empowerment & Making (DREAM)Software DesignResearchThe intersection of human computer interaction, tangible user interface design, community organizing Biography Dr. Amon Millner is an Associate Professor of Computing and Innovation directing the Extending Access to STEM Empowerment (EASE) Lab. His research and teaching is informed by his work in the Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) domain, drawing heavily from his specialization: developing tangible interactive systems for making and learning.He develops technology and community platforms to facilitate learners becoming empowered to make and make a difference in their neighborhoods. Millner creates engaging environments and tools that support learners of all ages increasing their capacity to innovate - leveraging a hands-on approach. Dr. Millner especially enjoys designing, developing, and deploying technological systems that allow novices to invent their own interactions between the physical world and the digital world. An example hardware interface is the PicoBoard (selling atsparkfun.com), a sensor board that Dr. Millner co-created while helping to invent the Scratch programming language. An example software interface comes from a startup that Millner co-founded, Modkit - producer of the graphical programming interface to the VexIQ robotics system. Dr. Millner has established local and international hubs for learning, making, and digital fabrication, shapingthe ways in which networks such as Computer Clubhouses and Fab Labs have evolved.His international recognition includes a designation as a Fulbright Specialist/Grantee. Millner, a champion in the Maker Movement, has authored computing curricula for K-12 classrooms. Millner contributes to multiple research communities, particularly conferences that focus on: tangible user interface design, interaction design and children, and digital media and learning. Dr. Millner, a patent holder, earned a Ph.D. in Media Arts and Sciences from MIT; a M.S. in Human Computer Interactions from Georgia Institute of Technology; and a B.S. in Computer Science from the University of Southern California. Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
