Faculty Profile for Joanne C. Pratt, Ph.D. | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Faculty Profiles Full-Time Faculty Members Joanne C. Pratt Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News November 9, 2020 Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Read More October 19, 2020 Barabino Elected to National Academy of Medicine Read More October 15, 2020 SCOPE 2020-2021: COVID-19 Cant Stop These Students from Making an Impact Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Joanne C. Pratt, Ph.D. Associate Dean Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Milas Hall 265 781-292-2571 joanne.pratt@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Immunology, University of Pennsylvania A.B., Biology, Smith College Select Courses TaughtProducts + MarketsImmunologyEmerging Technologies in Cancer Research and TreatmentResearchFactors that control the growth and functional programs of white blood cells Biography Prior to her position at Olin College, Dr. Pratt held Instructor positions at National Jewish Medical Center in Denver and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Harvard Medical School in Boston. She also spent a year as a postdoctoral fellow in Paris. Dr. Pratt currently holds a research grant from the NIH, and she has previously received research grants from The Cancer League of Colorado and The Association for International Cancer Research. Dr. Pratt's research interests are focused on the factors that control the growth and function of white blood cells. She has mentored numerous Olin students in her laboratory-based research projects and incorporates a semester-long authentic research experience into her Principles of Modern Biology class. She also teaches an advanced biology elective in Immunology, which has been taught at Olin and Wellesley Colleges and an interdisciplinary course in Emerging Technologies in Cancer Research. In addition to her teaching responsibilities at Olin, Dr. Pratt has served on almost every committee at the college- from furniture selection to strategic planning. Dr. Pratt's professional memberships include the American Association of Immunologists, the American Society for Engineer Education, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Society of Cell Biology. Dr. Pratt is a member of the Pilgrim John Howland Society and the Society of Mayflower Descendants. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
