Alessandra Ferzoco | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Alessandra Ferzoco Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News November 9, 2020 Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Read More October 19, 2020 Barabino Elected to National Academy of Medicine Read More October 15, 2020 SCOPE 2020-2021: COVID-19 Cant Stop These Students from Making an Impact Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Alessandra Ferzoco, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Measurement Science MH 331 781-292-2535 aferzoco@olin.edu @Hmmm_IWonder EducationPh.D. Chemistry, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill B.S. Chemistry, The University of California at Santa Barbara, College of Creative StudiesSelect Courses TaughtIntroduction to Sensors, Instrumentation & MeasurementTransport PhenomenaThermodynamicsResearchThe development of chemical detection instruments and methods (my favorite involve mass spectrometers) to understand the planets that we do and do not live on. Biography Alessandrais equal parts scientist, designer of learning experiences, and curious wanderer. Her work has mostly been in instrument and method development for laser spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, and ion mobility techniques, for a variety of applications. Her favorite aspects of the work are the practices of experimental design and extracting meaning from data, and she finds teaching these practices deeply compelling and challenging. The driving question of her work in the classroom, in project based learning, and in student-directed independent studies is How do we develop courage and curiosity in students so that they can jump into the difficulty of the unknown, and thrive in the pursuit of the not-yet-possible? AlessandraFerzocojoins Olin from the Rowland Institute at Harvard University where she was a Rowland Fellow. She earned her Ph.D. in physical chemistry from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and her B.S. in chemistry from the College of Creative Studies at the University of Santa Barbara. If you cant find her in her office or the classroom, shes probably playing outside, spending time with her family and pets, or learning humbling lessons from horses. Select Publications Rajagopal, V., Stokes, R. C., Ferzoco, A. "A Linear Ion Trap with an Expanded Inscribed Diameter to Improve Optical Access for Fluorescence Spectroscopy," Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry, (2018), 29, 260-269. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
