Faculty Profile for Aaron Hoover, Ph.D. | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Faculty Profiles Full-Time Faculty Members Aaron Hoover Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News November 9, 2020 Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Read More October 19, 2020 Barabino Elected to National Academy of Medicine Read More October 15, 2020 SCOPE 2020-2021: COVID-19 Cant Stop These Students from Making an Impact Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Aaron Hoover, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering Campus Center 214 781-292-2534 aaron.hoover@olin.edu @amhoov EducationPh.D., Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley M.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley B.S., Mechanical Engineering, Stanford University Select Courses TaughtDynamicsElecanisms (Mechatronics)Principles of EngineeringIntroduction to Mechanical PrototypingResearchBio-inspired Robotic Locomotion Robotic Design Computer-aided Design and Manufacturing Biography Dr. Aaron Hoover holds a Ph.D. and M.S. from the University of California, Berkeley and a B.S. from Stanford University all in mechanical engineering. At Berkeley, his dissertation research was in the area of biologically-inspired design and manufacture of novel, small-scale, legged robots. In the quest to design and build ever-smaller and more capable robots, Dr. Hoover seeks to understand how the principles underlying the locomotion of biological systems can yield insights that improve everything from manufacturing to dynamic performance. His continuing research interests are in bio-inspired robotic locomotion, robotic design, and computer-aided design and manufacturing. In 2009, Dr. Hoover's research was featured on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's science show, "Catalyst." Prior to joining Olin, Dr. Hoover was a post-doctoral researcher in the Biomimetic Milli-Systems lab at Berkeley. During his time at Berkeley, he mentored a number of undergraduate students and was also a fellow of the Summer Institute for Preparing Future Faculty. Dr. Hoover is a strong proponent of experiential, hands-on learning and enjoys the challenge of continually improving his teaching. Curriculum VitaePersonal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
