Faculty Profile for Jonathan Stolk, Ph.D. | Olin College Olin College Search Our Community Our Community Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events Admission & Financial Aid Admission & Financial Aid Connect Visit Apply Afford Academic Life Academic Life Academic Life Curriculum The Academic Experience Programs/Majors Other Academic Opportunities Meet our Faculty Academic Calendar Library Course Catalog Registrar's Office Student Affairs & Resources Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Research &Impact Research & Impact Research at Olin Transforming Education Social & Environmental Impact Undergraduate Research Opportunities Explorer's Program Sample Research & Impact Projects Collaborate with Olin Collaborate with Olin Collaboratory Careers & Graduate Studies Sketch Model Olin PInT Fellowship Corporate Partner Program SCOPE Remaking Education Olin-MIT Global Colloquium Search Olin Ahead The Wire Blogs News & Events About Olin Campus Give Home Our Community Faculty Faculty Profiles Full-Time Faculty Members Jonathan Stolk Navigation...NavigationcloseFacultyFull-Time Faculty Academic Visitors, Instructors and Technical Staff Emeritus Faculty Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Alumni & Families Giving to Olin Offices & Services Students Employment Opportunities Community Events News November 9, 2020 Mark Somerville Named New Provost and Dean of Faculty at Olin College Read More October 19, 2020 Barabino Elected to National Academy of Medicine Read More October 15, 2020 SCOPE 2020-2021: COVID-19 Cant Stop These Students from Making an Impact Read More Return To Full-Time Faculty Jonathan Stolk, Ph.D. Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Education Academic Center 327 781-292-2573 stolk@olin.edu EducationPh.D., Materials Science and Engineering, University of Texas, Austin M.S., Materials Science and Engineering, University of Texas, Austin B.S., Mechanical Engineering, University of Texas, Arlington Select Courses TaughtMaterials Science & Solid State ChemistryEducational Design StudioFailure Analysis & PreventionResearchLearner Motivation, Self-Directed Learning, Gender and Engineering, Educational Change Biography Dr. Jonathan Stolk joined Olin College in 2001 from Bucknell University, where he served as a Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Dr. Stolk holds M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in materials science and engineering from the University of Texas at Austin and a B.S. in mechanical engineering from the University of Texas at Arlington. Dr. Stolk is passionate about learning, and is excited to be a part of the Olin College environment, where there are always new paths to explore and new connections to make. He believes that each Olin student holds enormous potential for both personal growth and positive impact on our world, and he aspires to design learning experiences that foster students creative capacities and that encourage students development as unique, self-directing, and self-confident learners. Dr. Stolk's current research focuses on understanding the role of faculty in promoting lifelong learning, examining educational change processes in college settings, and investigating the effects of disciplinary integration and student autonomy on motivation and a broad range of learning outcomes. Stolk is currently involved in several NSF-supported collaborative research projects in STEM education, and he is actively engaged in helping faculty create innovative student experiences. Personal Website Olin College of Engineering An undergraduate engineering institution exploring innovative approaches to engineering education since its founding in 1997. 1000 Olin Way Needham, MA 02492 781.292.2300 2020 Olin College of Engineering Facebook Twitter Flickr Youtube LinkedIn Instagram Give to Olin News & Events Careers Admission Contact Directions Equal opportunity privacy/legal sitemap About Olin At-a-Glance CARES Act Funding SCOPE President's Office Consumer Information
