Jianshun "Jensen" Zhang - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People Jianshun "Jensen" Zhang Jianshun "Jensen" Zhang Professor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering 462G Link Hall 315.443.1366 [emailprotected] Personal Website Degrees Ph.D., University of Illinois and Urbana-Champaign; 1991 M.S. and B.S. Beijing Agr. Eng. University; 1982 and 1985 Lab/Center Affiliations Building Energy and Environmental Systems Laboratory EQS-STAR Center of Environmental Systems Syracuse Center of Excellence in Energy and Environmental Systems Research Interests Material Emissions, Air Purification, Ventilation, and Indoor Air Quality Hygrothermal Performance of Building Materials and Enclosure Systems Building Energy and Environmental Systems Built Environmental Systems Measurements, Modeling, and Controls Intelligent Buildings Combined Heat, Air, Moisture and Pollutant Simulations (CHAMPS) Multi-disciplinary and Multi-scale Building Systems Design and Optimization Effects of indoor environmental quality on occupant exposure, productivity, and creativity Current Research Professor Zhangs research ranges multi-scale BES from nano/micro-scale in porous media to buildings and urban environment and involves engineering, architectural design, human health, and performance. Major ongoing research projects are: Virtual Design Studio (VDS): development of a digital platform for an integrated and coordinated design of green buildings. The project involves close collaboration between engineers and architects to develop a designer-oriented software tool for performance-based building system design. BM-IDC: Building monitoring and intelligent diagnosis and control. Using a full-scale testbed, a Virtual Building based near real-time monitoring system is developed and deployed to collect essential data for fault detection and diagnosis, and improvement of building operation. CHAMPS: Development of combined heat, air moisture, and pollutant simulation software for building system design and control optimization. The CHAMPS simulation environment includes a whole building model, an enclosure model, an HVAC mode and a room model. It is supported by a collection of shared databases of weather, materials and assemblies, pollutants, sources, and sinks. Reduced-order models will be developed for near-real-time simulation in design and predictive control in the operation of buildings. ME-IAQ: Material emissions and indoor air quality. A model-based approach is taken to develop fundamental mass transfer models with essential model parameters determined from experiments. The research leads to better models for performance prediction and better test methods for evaluating both short and long-term emissions. ACT-IAQ: Air cleaning technologies and indoor air quality. A model-based approach is taken to develop better test methods, evaluate the performance of existing air cleaning technologies, and develop new ones for improving indoor air quality. BEST: Building enclosure system technologies. This research includes experimental measurements and modeling of the hygrothermal (thermal and moisture) storage and transport properties of various building materials, model prediction of their impact on enclosure assembly performance, and full-scale evaluation and validation at reduced and full-scale setting under both laboratory and field conditions. Effects of IEQ on human performance. Human subject study is performed using a total environmental quality research facility. The focus is on how the improved thermal and air quality via personal ventilation would impact the performance of creativity and productivity of building occupants. Courses Taught MEE 416 Mechanical Engineering Lab MAE 552 Building Environmental Measurements and Controls MAE 553 HVAC System Analysis and Design MAE 658 Building Environmental Modeling and Simulations MEE 657 Convective Heat and Mass Transfer ECS 600/ARC 600 Virtual Design Studio for Green Building Systems ECS 600/ARC 500 Research House, a course jointly taught with the faculty of Civil Engineering and School of Architecture on innovative designs of residential houses that are featured on green (energy and environmental quality), lite (light structure), and Media (multi-media communications). ARC 423/623 Advanced Building Systems (guest lecturer) ARC 690 Independent study: Engineering Analyses of Ecological Building Designs (guest lecturer) ARC 500 Living Systems in Architecture and Engineering MAE 995 Graduate Seminar in conjunction with a Built Environmental Systems seminar series Honors 2019 ASHRAE Research Administration Committee Service in ASHRAE Research Award 2018 ASHRAE Central New York Chapter Award for Contributions to Research and Education in HVAC and IAQ. Elected Fellow of ASHRAE, 2012 Frontier Foreign Expert Award, State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs, the P.R. China, 2012 Shiyuan Chair Professorship from Nanjing University, China, 2011 Best Paper of the Year award, Building Simulationan International Journal, 2010 Elected and active member of The ISIAQ Academy of Fellows, International Society of Indoor Air Quality and Climate, 2009 ASHRAE Distinguished Service Award, ASHRAE, 2008 JSPS Fellowship, Japanese Society for Promotion of Scientific Exchange, 2007 Otto Monsted Professorship from Technical University of Denmark, 2006 Citation by New York State Governor George E. Pataki in his 2003 State of the State address for scientific contributions to the development of the Syracuse Center of Excellence in Environmental Systems, 2003 American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) National Finalist Award and New York State Diamond Award for the development of the Coupled Indoor/Outdoor Environmental Simulator (C-I/O-ES) of the Building Energy and Environmental Systems Laboratory (BEESL), 2003 ASHRAE Certification of Appreciation Award, 1999 IRC/NRC Outstanding Research Achievement Award, 1999 Second place paper award at the Healthy Buildings/IAQ 97 international conference, Washington, DC, 1997 IRC/NRC Outstanding Research Achievement Award, 1995 Best paper award at the 5th International Jacques Cartier Conference on Indoor Air Quality, Ventilation and Energy Conservation, 1992 Outstanding research paper award (top 2.5%) by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers, 1989 Phi Kappa Phi and Alpha Epsilon honor societies, 1989 Excellent student awards, BAEU, 1980 Select Publications Zhenlei Liu, Jensen Zhang, Menghao Qin, Andreas Nicolai, and Marc Abadie. 2018. Development of a procedure for estimating the parameters of mechanistic emission source models from chamber testing data. Proceedings of IBPC 2018 7thInternational Building Physics Conference, Sept. 23-26, Syracuse, New York, USA. Chuan He, Jingjing Pei, and Jensen Zhang. 2018.An experimental and modeling study on the adsorption characteristics of activated carbon under different challenge concentration levels. Proceedings of IBPC 2018 7thInternational Building Physics Conference, Sept. 23-26, Syracuse, New York, USA. Achalu Tirfe and Jensen Zhang. 2018. A novel approach to near-real-time monitoring of ventilation rate and indoor air quality in residential houses. Proceedings of IBPC 2018 7thInternational Building Physics Conference, Sept. 23-26, Syracuse, New York, USA. Meng Kong and Jensen Zhang. 2018. Effects of semi-open space on micro-environmental control. Proceedings of IBPC 2018 7thInternational Building Physics Conference, Sept. 23-26, Syracuse, New York, USA. Rui Zhang, Roger Schmidt, Jeremy Gilbert, and Jensen Zhang. 2018. Effects of gaseous pollution and thermal conditions on the corrosion rates of copper and silver in data center environment: a literature review. Proceedings of IBPC 2018 7thInternational Building Physics Conference, Sept. 23-26, Syracuse, New York, USA. Chuan He, Beverly Guo, and Jianshun Zhang. 2018. On the Dependence of the Partition Coefficient on the Challenge Concentration of VOCs on Activated Carbon: An Experimental Study. Proceedings of Indoor Air 2018. Philadelphia, PA, July 22-27. K Han and J. Zhang. 2018. On the Dependence of the Partition Coefficient on the Challenge Concentration of VOCs on Activated Carbon: An Experimental Study. Proceedings of Indoor Air 2018. Philadelphia, PA, July 22-27. MengKong, M. Yu, N. Liu, P. Gao, Y. Wang and J. Zhang. 2017. Combined GIS, CFD and Neural Network Multi-Zone Model for Urban Planning and Building Simulation. Proceedings of Building Simulation 2017. August 3-7, San Francisco. Ryan Milcarek, Shaun Turner, Rui Zhang, Jeongmin Ahn, Jianshun Zhang. 2017. Climate and Its Effect on HVAC System Performance. ASHRAE Winter Conference, January 28-February 2. Las Vegas, NV Zhenlei Liu, Rui Zhang, Tim Stenson, Adib Rais, Wenhao Chen, Jianshun Zhang. 2017.Definition of a Reference Residential Building Prototype for Evaluating IAQ and Energy Efficiency Strategies. Healthy Building 2017. September 2-5. Tainan, Tawan. Meng Kong, Ruth Chen, Daren Chen, Yan Zhang, Yang Lv, B. Guo, and Jianshun Zhang. 2016. Fine and ultrafine particle concentrations in the neighborhood of a highway. Proceedings of Indoor Air 2016, July 3-7. Belgium. Guoqing He and Jianshun Zhang. 2016. Anew analytical solar chimney Proceedings of Indoor Air 2016, July 3-7. Belgium. Synergistic Activities Jianshun Zhang has 28 years of research experience in Built Environmental Systems (BES) and has authored/co-authored 100+ peer-reviewed journal papers and 100+ refereed conference papers, one book, 2 ASTM and 1 ANSI/BIFMA Standards. His research ranges multi-scale BES from nano/micro-scale in porous media to buildings and urban environment and involves engineering, architectural design, human health and performance. He leads an international group in developing methods and tools for combined heat, air, moisture and pollutant simulations (CHAMPS) for building systems. He teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in the areas of building energy and environmental systems and fundamental heat and mass transfer and has advised/co-advised over 20 Ph.D. students, over 20 M.S. students, and 8 Postdoctoral Fellows. He serves on the Editorial Boards of several international journals: Energy and Buildings, HVAC&R Research, Ventilation, Building Simulations, High-Rise Buildings, and Frontiers of Architectural Research. Zhang served on ASHRAE Environmental Health Committee (2006-present, 2011/12 Chair) and Research Administration Committee (2003-2005), and is a member of Technical and Standard Committees in the society. He is also a Voting Member of ASTM D22.05 on Indoor Air, AWMA and ISIAQ, and a U.S. Expert Representative to the ISO standard committee on air purification. He is elected Fellow of ASHRAE (2011) and ISIAQ (2009), and Member of Board of Directors of International Assoc. of Building Physics. Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
