Young B. Moon - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People Young B. Moon Young B. Moon William J. Smith Professor in Manufacturing Enterprises; Department Chair Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering 263-E Link Hall 315.443.2341 [emailprotected] Personal Website Degree(s): Ph.D., Purdue University M.S., Stanford University B.S., Seoul National University Lab/Center Affiliation(s): Institute for Manufacturing Enterprises Research Interests: Systems Modeling and Simulation Sustainability and Enterprise Systems Product Lifecycle Management Current Research: Professor Moons research involves using modeling and simulation methods to develop effective and innovative solutions to complex systems problems such as CyberManufacturing Systems, New Product Development Processes, Enterprise Systems, and Sustainable Manufacturing. Courses Taught: Simulation and Data Analytics Statistics for Engineers Sustainable Manufacturing Modeling and Optimization Techniques Honors: Fulbright Scholar Syracuse Universitys College of Engineering and Computer ScienceFaculty Excellence Award Selected Publications: Y.B. Moon, Simulation Modeling for Sustainability: A Review of the Literature, International Journal of Sustainable Engineering, vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 2-19, 2017. M. Wu, V. Phoha, Y.B. Moon and A.K. Belman, Detecting Malicious Defects in 3D Printing Process Using Machine Learning and Image Classification, Proceedings of the International Mechanical Engineering Congress & Exposition, Phoenix, AZ, November 11-17, 2016. Z. Song and Y.B. Moon, Performance Analysis of CyberManufacturing Systems: A Simulation Study, Proceedings of the IFIP 13th International Conference on Product Lifecycle Management (IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, volume 492), Columbia, SC, July 11-13, 2016. M. Wu and Y.B. Moon, Spurring Innovation in a Sustainable Manufacturing Course, Proceedings of the ASEE Annual Conference & Exposition, New Orleans, LA, June 26-29, 2016. Y. B. Moon and M. Wu, Innovation within the constraints of sustainability: analysis of product development projects, (with Mingtao Wu), Proceedings of the Frontiers in Engineering Conference, El Paso, TX, October 21-24, 2015. B. Wang, S. Breme and Y.B. Moon, Hybrid Modeling and Simulation Method for Lifecycle Assessment, Computers and Industrial Engineering, vol. 69, pp. 77-88, 2014. K.R. Reddi, W. Li, B. Wang and Y.B. Moon, System Dynamics Modeling of Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems and Combined Heating & Power Generator, International Journal of Sustainable Engineering, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 31-47, 2013. K.R. Reddi and Y.B. Moon, System Dynamics Modeling of New Product Development and Engineering Change Management in a Collaborative Environment, International Journal of Production Research, vol. 51, no. 17, pp. 5271-5291, 2013. W. Li and Y.B. Moon, Modeling and Managing Engineering Changes in a Complex Product Development Process, International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, vol. 63, no. 9-12, pp. 863-874, 2012. Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
