Thong Dang - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People Thong Dang Thong Dang Professor, Graduate Affairs Committee Chair, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Graduate Program Director Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering 462L Link Hall 315.443.4311 [emailprotected] Degree(s): Ph.D., MIT Research Interests: Fluid Mechanics, CFD Aerodynamics, Propulsion, Turbomachine Energy & Indoor Environment Quality Current Research: Professor Dangs research interests are in fluid mechanics (CFD), aerodynamics, propulsion, turbomachine and energy and indoor environment quality. In the area of aerodynamics/propulsion/turbomachine, research interests include novel airfoil concepts for propulsion and circulation control by embedding crossflow fans into the airfoil/wing,body-forcemodelling of bypass fan system in full aircraft CFD simulations under 3D inlet distortion,development of highly-coupled coil and wide-angle vane-diffuser axial fanconcept, aerodynamics and design of cooling fan in compact and high-power computer servers. In the area of lndoor Air Quality (IAQ) and Energy Systems, research interests include studies to improve the personal micro-environment in built-environments (e.g. building offices, aircraft cabins) using local air delivery and removal systems, control of natural ventilation in tall buildings with aerodynamic shape via manipulating building envelope pressure loading with emphasis on the use of novel concepts to synergistically harvest wind energy and improve IAQ, and flow/thermal management from server to data-center room levels. Courses Taught: AEE 343 Compressible Flow AEE 446 Aerospace Propulsion MAE 571 Applications of CFD MAE 585 Principles of Turbomachines MAE 643 Fluid Dynamics MAE 771 Computational Fluid Mechanics Selected Publications: Mao, Y. and Dang, T., A Three-Dimensional Body-Force Model for Nacelle-Fan Systems under Inlet Distortion, Aerospace Science and Technology, vol. 106, November 2020. Mao, Y. and Dang, T., A Simple Approach for Modeling Fan Systems with a CFD-Based Body-Force Model,AIAA Journal of Propulsion and Power, June 2020. Kong, M., Zhang, J., Dang, T., Hedge, E., Teng, T., Carter, B., Chianese, C., and Khalifa, E.,Micro-environmental Control for Efficient Local Cooling: Results from Manikin and Human Subject Tests,Building & Environment, 160, 2019. Kong, M., Dang, T., Zhang, J. and Khalifa, E., Micro-environmental Control for Local Heating: CFD Simulation and Manikin Test Verification, Building & Environment, 147, 2019. Phan, N., Welles, A., Sarimurat, M. and Dang, T., Leading Edge Embedded Fan Airfoil Concept A New Powered High Lift Technology, presented at the International Power Lift Conference, Bristol, UK, November 2018. Kong, M., Dang, T., Zhang, J. and Khalifa, E., Micro-environmental Control for Efficient Cooling. Building & Environment, 118, 2017. Sivakumar, P. and Dang, T.Q., Building Envelope Wind Pressure Manipulation for Streamlined High-Rise Buildings, International Journal of Ventilation, 13, no. 1, June 2014. Sarimurat, M. and Dang, T.Q., An Analytical Model for Boundary Layer Control via Steady Blowing and Its Application to NACA-65-410 Cascade, ASME Journal of Turbomachinery, vol. 136, June 2014. Abdelmaksoud, W., Dang, T., Khalifa, E. and Schmidt, R., Improved Computational Fluid Dynamics Model for Open-Aisle Air-Cooled Data Center, ASME Journal of Electronic Packaging, vol. 135, issue 3, 2013. Sarimurat, M. and Dang, T.Q., Management of Passage Shock Location in Diverging Flow Passages by Blowing/Suction. Part 1: Quasi-1D Compressible Flow Theory, AIAA Journal of Propulsion and Power, vol. 28, no. 6, 2012. Sarimurat, M. and Dang, T.Q., Management of Passage Shock Location in Diverging Flow Passages by Blowing/Suction. Part 2: Applications to Nozzles and Cascades, AIAA Journal of Propulsion and Power, vol. 28, no. 6, 2012. Dygert, R.K. and Dang, T.Q., Experimental Validation of Local Exhaust Strategies for Improved IAQ in Aircraft Cabins, Building & Environment, vol 47, Jan. 2012. Serreli, C., Dang, T. Q., Khalifa, H., Schmidt, R., and Iyengar, M., Reduced Rack Exhaust Temperature Gradient via Variable Chassis Flow Rate, Proceedings of the ASME 2011 Pacific Rim Technical Conference & Exposition on Packaging and Integration of Electronic and Photonic Systems, InterPACK2011-52067, July 6-8 2011, Portland, Oregon, USA. Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
