H. Ezzat Khalifa - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People H. Ezzat Khalifa H. Ezzat Khalifa Emeritus, Research Professor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering [emailprotected] Degrees: Ph.D. in Engineering (Thermo & Fluid Dynamics) from Brown University. Professor Khalifa is NYSTAR Distinguished Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, and founding Director of the multi-institutional STAR Center for Environmental Quality Systems at Syracuse University. His distinguished career spans over five decades of academic and industrial experience in engineering teaching, research, technology & product development, and R&D planning and execution. He joined Syracuse University in 2001, after a 23-year career as a researcher, manager and R&D Director at United Technologies Corporation, where he was responsible for the development of a wide range of environmental control and energy conversion technologies and products. He served as the Director of Engineering of Carriers Carlyle Compressor Division from 1991 to 1998 and the Director of the Carrier R&D program at United Technologies Research Center before retiring to join Syracuse University in 2001. He is author and coauthor of more than 120 papers and 9 patents, and coeditor and coauthor of A sourcebook on the production of electricity from geothermal energy. Lab/Center Affiliations: Professor Khalifa is the founding director of the STAR Center for Environmental Quality Systems, the academic research arm of the Syracuse Center of Excellence in Environmental and Energy Systems. He is also the originator of the SU Green Data Center power and cooling infrastructure concept and conducts research on data center energy efficiency there. Current Research: His research is currently focused on the experimental and analytical investigation and development of innovative distributed personalized environmental control systems; investigation of air, energy and contaminant transport in the personal microenvironment; intelligent distributed energy-efficient control of the indoor environment; analytical and computational studies of dust resuspension due to falling objects; development of reduced order models of air, energy and contaminant flows in the indoor environment; and development of innovative cooling and energy supply systems for high-efficiency data centers. He is currently the PI of over $4M of research projects funded by the US DOE and the State of New York, focused on research in micro-environmental control systems for local thermal management. Courses Taught: MAE 355/CEN 341 Principles of Heat & Mass Transfer MAE 657 Convective Heat & Mass Transfer MAE 551 Energy Conversion MAE 548 Engineering Economics & Technology Valuation MAE 554 Principles of Refrigeration NUC 510 Nuclear Reactor Design, Operation & Safety Honors: Fellow of ASME Fellow of ASHRAE Member of AIAA Member of APS and Sigma Xi Selected Publications: Pardey, Z. M., D. W. Demetriou, H. S. Erden, J. W. VanGilder, H. E. Khalifa and R. R. Schmidt, Proposal for Standard Compact Server Model for Transient Data Center Simulations, ASHRAE Trans. (Tech. Paper # CH-15-036), 2015 (Best Paper Award). Erden, H. S., H. E. Khalifa and R. R. Schmidt, A Hybrid Lumped Capacitance CFD Model for the Simulation of Data Center Transients, ASHRAE HVAC&R Research Journal, V.20, pp. 688-702, 2014. Erden, H. S., H. E. Khalifa and R. R. Schmidt, Determination of the Lumped-Capacitance Parameters of Air-cooled Servers through Air Temperature Measurements, ASME Trans. J. of Electronic Packaging, V. 136(3), pp. 031005:1-9, 2014.. Elhadidi, B. and H. E. Khalifa, Comparison of coarse grid lattice Boltzmann and Navier Stokes for real time flow simulations in rooms, J. Building Simulation, Vol. 6, pp 183194, 2013. Abdelmaksoud, W. A., T. Q. Dang, H. E. Khalifa and R. R. Schmidt, Improved CFD model for open-aisle, air-cooled data center simulations, ASME Trans. J. of Electronic Packaging, Vol. 6(3), pp. 030901 1-13, 2013. Elhadidi, B. and H. E. Khalifa, Aerodynamic Resuspension of Particles due to a Falling Flat Disk, Particulate Science & Technology, Vol. 31, pp. 35-44, 2013. Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
