Teng Zhang - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People Teng Zhang Teng Zhang Assistant Professor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering 214 Link Hall 315.443.2969 [emailprotected] Degree(s): Ph.D. Brown University, 2015 M.S. Dalian University of Technology, 2010 B.S. Dalian University of Technology, 2007 Research Interests: Solid Mechanics Mechanics and multi-physics of soft materials Nano-mechanics Bio-inspired design Current Research: Zhang groups current research goal is to explore the fundamental mechanism of the extraordinary mechanical performances (i.e., high toughness, great fatigue resistance, and strong adhesion) of biomaterials, such as cartilage, heart valves, bones, and mussel plague and to propose the novel design principle of the bio-inspired smart materials. To achieve this goal, we employ multiscale and multiphysics modeling and simulations to understand the mechanics of the key components of biomaterials: hard materials for stiffness, soft materials for stretchability and tough interface for robustness. The current research focuses on: (1) Hard materials: mechanics of graphene and the general two-dimensional materials. (2) Soft materials: fracture and excessive deformation of soft materials, including hydrogels, elastomers, and cells. (3) Interface: strong under-water adhesion and the effect of cavitation and materials failure on the interfacial toughness. Honors: 2013 Best Teaching Assistance Award of School of Engineering, Brown University Selected Publications: Yuk, Hyunwoo, Teng Zhang, Shaoting Lin, German Alberto Parada, and Xuanhe Zhao. Tough bonding of hydrogels to diverse non-porous surfaces. Nature materials 15, no. 2 (2016): 190-196. Teng Zhang, Shaoting Lin, Hyunwoo Yuk, and Xuanhe Zhao. Predicting fracture energies and crack-tip fields of soft tough materials. Extreme Mechanics Letters 4 (2015): 1-8. Teng Zhang, Xiaoyan Li, and Huajian Gao. Designing graphene structures with controlled distributions of topological defects: a case study of toughness enhancement in graphene ruga. Extreme Mechanics Letters 1 (2014): 3-8. Teng Zhang, Xiaoyan Li, and Huajian Gao. Defects controlled wrinkling and topological design in graphene. Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids 67 (2014): 2-13. Teng Zhang, Xiaoyan Li, Sara Kadkhodaei, and Huajian Gao. Flaw insensitive fracture in nanocrystalline graphene. Nano Letters, Vol. 12(9) (2012): 4605-4610. Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
