Jacques Lewalle - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People Jacques Lewalle Jacques Lewalle Research Professor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering 237 Link Hall 315.443.4211 [emailprotected] Personal Website Degree(s): Ph.D., Cornell University Research Interests: Wavelet analysis (time-frequency), multiscale phenomena Signal processing: aeroacoustics, flow physics in varying configurations Mathematical physics of turbulent flows Sound refraction of in turbulent flows Current Research: Extracting information from experimental (acoustic signals, PIV fields) and numerical (LES) data is like squeezing juice from various fruits. My methods combine continuous wavelet analysis of time series (time-frequency methods) with conventional statistical and signal processing tools. The same ideas are also applied to the governing equations, yielding insights into multiscale dynamics in Navier-Stokes turbulence and related topics. I am not aware of anyone with more archival publications in the area of continuous wavelets. These tools are currently applied to the problem of jet noise, achieving some success in the remote identification of individual near-field sources. This is combined with the analysis of near-field velocity from time-resolved PIV and computer-generated data. Similarly, the analysis of wind turbine data is exposing some of the flow physics related to flow separation and loading on the blades, and eventually to noise generation. Two graduate and four undergraduate students are involved in these projects under my direct supervision. Active collaborations include other students in Prof. Glausers group, as well as colleagues at the Universit de Poitiers. Teaching Interests: Engineering science fundamentals Fluid mechanics Cognitive development and mind mapping Each generation of students comes with a different mind set and tool kit. As a teacher, I have to strike a balance between passing on my knowledge (mind set, tool kit) while keeping up to date (new tools) and recognizing that the future belongs to the students more than to me. Regardless of course content, it is my responsibility to set standards and to help the students meet them. I need to share my knowledge while being respectful of the changes taking place in the profession and in society. I have had the mixed blessings of a multidisciplinary background (engineering physics, aerospace, chemical and mechanical engineering) and of teaching a very wide range of topics, which are reflected in broad connections between concepts and methods I share with students. This philosophy of teaching is currently applied to core engineering science and some graduate courses. To the extent possible in large classes, I try and pay attention to individual students. The elusive goal is to understand how they think, collectively and individually, so I can be more effective in helping each one be his or her best. Honors: 2004 Lewis F. Moody Award, Division of Fluids Engineering, ASME, for the most outstanding original paper dealing with the practice of fluid engineering. 3-time recipient, FilterTech, Pi Tau Sigma and Sigma Gamma Tau award for Excellence in Education in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Courses Taught: MAE 341 MAE/CEN 643 ECS222 MAE545 MAE741 Selected Publications: Kan, P., Ruscher, C.J, Lewalle, J. and Gogineni, S., Near-field shock/shear-layer interactions in simulated three-stream supersonic rectangular jet, submitted to AIAA Journal, 2016; revisions submitted, 2017. A.S. Magstadt, P. Kan, Z. P. Berger, C. J. Ruscher, M. G. Berry, M. A. Green, J. Lewalle and M. N. Glauser, Turbulent Flow Physics and Control: The Role of Big Data Analyses Tools, in Whither Turbulence and Big Data in the 21st Century, A. Pollard, L. Castillo, L. Danila and M. Glauser Eds., Springer 2016. Wang, G, Lewalle, J., Glauser, M.N. and Walczak, J, The preliminary investigation of the benefits of unsteady blowing actuation on a 2D wind turbine blade, J. Turbulence 14(1), 165-189, 2013. Lewalle, J., Low, K.R. and Glauser, M.N., Properties of individual jet noise sources identified from far-field pressure data, Int. J. Aeroacoustics, 11, 651-674, 2012. Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
