Bing Dong - College of Engineering & Computer Science Syracuse University Skip to main content College of Engineering & Computer Science - Syracuse University Site Navigtion Fall 2020 Information Utility Navigation RETURN TO COLLEGE SITE Apply Make A Gift Search for: Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Undergraduate Graduate People Research Alumni News & Events About Contact Fall 2020 Information Site Navigation Search for: Apply Undergraduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Research ME Capstone Design Graduate Academic Programs Prospective Students Current Students People Research Research Areas Centers & Labs Grants Alumni News & Events News Events Awards & Honors Submit News & Events About Advisory Board About The Department Open Positions Contact make a gift Return to College Site close menu People Bing Dong Bing Dong Associate Professor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering 365 Link Hall 315.443.1293 [emailprotected] Degrees: Ph.D. in Building Performance and Diagnostics, Carnegie MellonUniversity M.S. in Building Science, National University of Singapore B.E. in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Nanjing University of Technology Lab/Center Affiliations: Built Environment Science and Technology (BEST) Lab Syracuse Center of Excellence in Energy and Environmental Systems Research interests: Modeling occupant behavior in buildings Intelligent building operation Fault detection and diagnostics Buildings-to-grid integration Grid-interactive Efficient Buildings Urban mobility Urban building energy modeling Modeling and optimization of urban energy system Human performance Current Research: Prof. Dongs current research goal is to explore how smart buildings play an active role in urban scale cyber-physical energy system considering human behavior, renewable energy, energy storage, smart grid, health and resilience through physics-based modeling, optimization and controls, heterogeneous sensing and data-driven models. Current major research topics are: (1) Human-Building-Interactions including Detecting, Modeling and Simulating Occupant Behavior in Buildings and Behavior-driven Control and Optimization for Energy Systems and (2) System-level Modeling, Optimization and Control for Urban Built Environment including Buildings-to-Grid Integration Control and Optimization Framework, Modeling of Occupancy Behavior at a Community Level and Connect with other Urban Infrastructures and Community energy planning and management. Major ongoing research projects are (1) NSF CAREER: Holistic Assessment of the Impacts of Connected Buildings and People on Community Energy Planning and Management, (2) Department of Energy Argonne National Lab: Spatial-temporal data-driven weather and energy forecasting for improved implementation of advanced building controls, and (3) ARPA-E: Quantification of HVAC Energy Savings for Occupancy Sensing in Buildings through An Innovative Testing Methodology. Teaching Interests: HVAC design Building performance modeling and diagnostics Honors and Awards: 2019 NSF CAREER Award 2018 IBPSA-USA Emerging Contributor Award 2017 Innovator of the Year, The University of Texas at San Antonio 2017 Faculty Research Award, The University of Texas at San Antonio 2017 Distinguished Service Award for IEA EBC Annex 66 Project 2010 Isabel Sophia Liceaga Discretionary Fund Faculty Award, Carnegie Mellon University 2009 Akram Midani Award, Carnegie Mellon University Select Publications: Wagner, A., OBrien, W. and Dong, B. eds., 2018. Exploring Occupant Behavior in Buildings: Methods and Challenges. Springer. Zi, Y. Dong, B., Jin. Y., Da, Y., and Li.Z. Household Appliance Recognition Through a Bayes Classification Model. Sustainable Cities and Society. Accepted. 2019. (IF:1.777) Mirakhorli, A.* and Dong, B., 2018. Model predictive control for building loads connected with a residential distribution grid. Applied Energy. 230, pp.627-642. (IF: 7.182) Liu, Y., Yu, N., Wang, W., Guan, X., Xu, Z., Dong, B. and Liu, T., 2018. Coordinating the operations of smart buildings in smart grids. Applied Energy, 228, pp.2510-2525. (IF: 7.182) Dong, B., Yan, D. Li, Z.*,Jin, Y., Feng, X.H., Fontenot, H. 2018. Modeling occupancy and behavior for better building design and operationA critical review. InBuilding Simulation (in Press). Springer Berlin Heidelberg. (IF: 1.170)-Invited Paper: 10 Years Anniversary. Nayak,T*., Zhang,T., Mao,Z.J., Xu,X.J., Zhang,L., Pack,D., Dong, B. and Huang, Y.F. 2018. Prediction of Human Performance using EEG under Different Indoor Room Temperatures. Brain Science (IF: 2.6) Dong, B., Li, Z.*, Taha, A. and Gatsis, N., 2018. Occupancy-based buildings-to-grid integration framework for smart and connected communities.Applied Energy,219, pp.123-137.(IF: 7.182) Mirakhorli, A.* and Dong, B., 2018. Market and behavior driven predictive energy management for residential buildings.Sustainable Cities and Society,38, pp.723-735. (IF:1.777) Li, Z*. and Dong, B., 2018. Short term predictions of occupancy in commercial buildingsPerformance analysis for stochastic models and machine learning approaches.Energy and Buildings,158, pp.268-281.(IF: 4.067) Back to people 2020 PRIVACY POLICY SYR.EDU 223 Link Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244 visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on linkedIn visit us on twitter visit us on youtube ACCESSIBLE SYRACUSE
