Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science : University of Minnesota University of Minnesotahttp://www.umn.edu/612-625-5000 Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU : For Students, Faculty, and Staff Search Search College of Science and Engineering CSE Home CSE Directory Give to CSE Menu About Back Department News & Events Contact Us Safety Back Welcome to CEMS! We are among only a few universities nationwide offering both chemical engineering and materials science programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Department Chemical Engineering Materials Science Safety News & Events News Seminars Short Courses Contact Us People Back Faculty Graduate Students Post-doctoral Associates Staff Back Our vibrant community of motivated scholars, dedicated educators, and hardworking staff members are pleased to welcome and assist you. CEMS Core Faculty Graduate Adjunct Emeritus Graduate Students Post-doctoral Associates CEMS Staff Research Back Research Areas Research Groups Research Labs / Centers Back CEMS faculty are actively engaged in groundbreaking research and earn remarkable achievements by remaining on the forefront of science and technology. Research Areas Research Groups Labs & Centers Characterization Facility IPRIME MRSEC and more Undergraduate Programs Back About Admissions Opportunities Scholarships Back With a rigorous curriculum, numerous undergraduate research opportunities, and access to world-class faculty members, CEMS students are well prepared for success upon graduation. About Curricula Four Year Plans Opportunities Scholarships Admissions High School Students CSE Lower Division Transfer Students International Students Graduate Programs Back About Admissions Grad Experience Fellowships Opportunities Back We are a top-tier, internationally competitive department, boasting innovative research accomplishments and access to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment. About Grad Experience Fellowships Opportunities Admissions Admission Guidelines Application Requirements International Applicants Financial Support Alumni & Giving Back Alumni Giving Profiles Update Your Info Back The core of our success resides in our alumni and giving efforts, allowing us to honor the history of CEMS, support the mission of the Department, and ensure the success of our elite academic programs. Alumni Newsletter Engagement Profiles Update Your Info Giving Undergraduate Scholarships Graduate Fellowships Faculty Research Department Support Page Not Found The content you are looking for is not available. The URL may be malformed, or the page is no longer current. Contact Information Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science 421 Washington Ave. SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455-0132 P: 612-625-1313 | F: 612-626-7246 Contact Us Connect on Social Media Facebook Linked In YouTube Login CEMS Intranet Maps & Directions Parking & Transportation Department Directory For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop My U Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement
