Le, Thuy | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Le, ThuySan Jos State University Site Navigation Teaching Publications Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity SJSU Home>People>Le, Thuy Le, Thuy one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Courses Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Professor & Department ChairDepartment of Electrical EngineeringEngineering Building, E349One Washington SquareSan Jose, CA 95192-0084U.S.A.Tel: (408) 924-5708,Fax: (408) 924-3925,Email:Thuy.Le@sjsu.edu Web: https://ee.sjsu.edu/ Education Ph.D. University of California,Berkeley Bio ThuyT. Le received his Ph.D. (1990), M.S. (1987), and B.S. (1985) degrees all from theUniversity of California at Berkeley. Presently he is a Professor & Department Chair ofElectrical Engineering Department at San Jose State University. At San JoseStateUniversity, Prof. Le is responsible in teaching graduate and undergraduate courses in digital system design, computer and microprocessor architecture, computer interfacing, numerical methods, probability and random processes, and linear system theory. He also serves as research advisor in the areas of digital system and logic design, inter-communication and inter-networking, computer clustering, advanced and parallel computer architectures, probability and digital signal processing, computational electronic, micro-controller and microprocessor. Prof. Le has also been working on several projects with local companies. These projects include high-performance system architectures, parallel algorithms and applications, digital arithmetic algorithms and circuit design, and System-on-Chip verification and validation. Before joiningSan JoseStateUniversity, Dr. Le was a Senior Research Engineer of the Scientific Computation Division at Savannah River Laboratory. He also served as an Adjunct Professor in Mathematical and Engineering Department at theUniversityofSouth Carolina. At Savannah River Laboratory, Dr. Le participated in the design of five new nuclear reactors for Tritium production. In this capacity, he co-authored several computational nuclear reactor physics and radiation shielding codes, which include the three-dimensionalvectorizedreactor design code (GRIMHX3), the improved collision probability assembly resonance treatment code (MARJORI), the three-dimensional radiation shielding analysis code (ROOMDOSE), and the two-dimensional generalized geometry discrete ordinates code. Dr. Le was also a member the Quality Assurance Team who is responsible for the verification and validation of the computer codes in use at Savannah River Site. These codes include the nuclear fuel cycle and spent fuel analysis codes, reactor safety analysis systems, and the reactor charge design codes. From 1988 to 1990, Dr. Le was a Physics Instructor atU.C. Berkeleyand College of Alameda, and was also a Research Assistant in Physics Department atLawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. While there he participated in a large DOE funded research project in hydrogenated amorphous silicon, which includes the studies of hydrogenated amorphous silicon structure, very low noise preamplifier, radiation effects on semiconductor, memory, and electronic systems, and high-energy electromagnetic shower simulation. During the period of 1986 and 1990, Dr. Le also performed another research project in High-performance Computational Nuclear Reactor Physics in Nuclear Engineering Department atUniversityofCalifornia Berkeley. In this project, he developed a Mathematical Nodal model that can speed-up the solutions of three-dimensional neutron diffusion problem in nuclear reactor core. He successfully prototyped and benchmarked his work by implementing three-dimensional neutron diffusion with thermal-hydraulic feedback code running on64KBIBM PC-XT. During the periods of 1993 to 1996 and from 1989 to 1990, Dr. Le was an independent contractor of Sierra Nuclear Corporation,California. In this capacity, he served as an independent technical reviewer to review and give comments on documents and reports in the areas of nuclear fuel storage calculations, cask design, and criticality analysis for the transportation of nuclear spent fuels. During the period of 1985 to 1988, he worked as a Reactor Operator and Nuclear Health Physicist for theTrigaMark III nuclear research reactor at theUniversityofCalifornia,Berkeley. Prof. Le has served as general chair, technical program chair, session chair, reviewer, and committee member of a number of technical international conferences and symposiums. His publications include technical papers, seminars, and reports in broad areas of parallel and distributed computing and algorithms, computer architectures and computer networks, hardware accelerators for complex algorithms, and computational reactor physics. Prof. Les current research interests include topics inASIC,SoCand Embedded System Design, Hardware Accelerator, Microprocessor and Microcontroller, implementation of Probability theory and Monte Carlo simulation, radiation effects to electronic devices and systems. Prof. Le is also a Co-Founder and Advisor of the Vietnamese Strategic Ventures Network (now is Strategic Alliance Vietnamese Ventures International) and Chairman of the Board of the United StatesVietnam Foundation. SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 12, 2020
