Department Profile | Electrical Engineering | San Jos State University Skip to main content SJSU Electrical Engineering SanJosStateUniversity CollegeofEngineering Toggle navigation Search here Search Search Home About EEMessage from Department Chair Department Profile Department Advisory Committee Employment Report AcademicsBS Electrical Engineering (BSEE) MS Electrical Engineering (MSEE) SJSU Class Schedule SJSU Calendar StudentsDepartment Student Job Openings Engineering Student Success Center(Graduate Students) Engineering Student Success Center(Undergraduate Students) Graduation Information Job, Internship and Scholarships Student Association Useful Links Faculty & StaffFull-time Faculty Part Time Faculty Faculty Office Hours Administration Staff Emeritus Faculty Tenure-track Faculty Position Department LaboratoriesLaboratory Facilities Laboratory Support Galleries Student SymposiumFall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Fall 2017 Archive Electrical Engineering SanJosStateUniversity CollegeofEngineering SJSU Home > College of Engineering > Electrical Engineering > Home > Department Profile ANNOUNCEMENTTenure-track Assistant Professor Position Available Part-time LecturerPositions AvailableComprehensive ExamDate: November 13, 2020 Time: 1300-1430 Online Accept Canvas invitation for EE200-Comprehensive Exam after registration Registration is closed2020 Electrical Engineering(Video)The Way to San Jose EE WebinarFall 2020 EE Newsletter Department Profile The University San JosState University, founded in 1857, is California's oldest institution of public higher education. It is located within walking distance of downtown San Josand the new San Jose City Hall. It is the home of the newly completed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Library, the largest public library in the western United States. The university's enrollment stands at nearly 32,000 students. The College of Engineering Frequently referred to as "The Engine that Drives Silicon Valley, "SJSU's College of Engineering has provided more engineers to its high-tech community than any other university in the USA. The college has 7,300 students, 2,500 graduates and 4,800 undergraduates. The ninedepartments offer thirteendifferent degree programs at the BS and MS levels. The EE Department The EE Department has established a firm goal to provide high quality Electrical Engineering education to its students at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. The Department offers classroom instruction by the best qualified EE faculty, hands-on experience in industry-sponsored state-of-the-art laboratories, and opportunities for industry internships. The Department has over 600 undergraduate and 550graduate students. The program supports students to acquire professional experience while taking classes. A number of students work as faculty assistants and teaching associates in the department. In conjunction with their classes, many students work as EE interns in the Silicon Valley firms. Our graduates enjoy excellent career opportunities in a broad spectrum of theoretical and practical areas such as wireless communications; machine learning; analog, digital and mixed signals; integrated circuits (IC); computer architectures and embedded systems, control and robotics; power/energy systems; and network security. EE Department's Mission The department's mission is to provide an empowering educational opportunity to students for their technical, professional and social development in a competitive and dynamic global society. Undergraduate Program The Department's educational philosophy emphasizes a hands-on practical education, based on sound understanding of Electrical Engineering fundamentals. Laboratory experience and projects are an integral part of the program. The program prepares the student to work as an engineer in industry or to pursue higher education. Graduate Program The EE graduate program offers specialization in Digital Design, Signal Processing and Communication, Networking, VLSI, and Analog and Mixed Signal ICs. Thesis, project, or courses-only options are available to complete the degree. Industry internships are a strong component of the graduate program. Graduates of the program work in industry or continue with a doctoral program. EE Faculty Our highly qualified EE faculty includes 20 full time regular facultymembers, 20 adjuncts from local industry and more than 20 teaching associates.Regular faculty members are active in research and publications, including authoring of textbooks adopted by many universities and colleges around the world. Department Laboratories State-of-the-art industry-sponsored labs for education and research is the distinguishing strength of the EE department. These labs are: * Cadence IC Design Laboratory * Center for Analog and Mixed Signal * Center of Power Electronics Converters * Cheadle RF Communications Laboratory * Circuits Laboratory * Cisco Networking Laboratory * Digital Signal and Data Processing * DSP/FPGA Laboratory * Electronic Design I Laboratory * Electronic Design II Laboratory * Embedded Control Systems Laboratory * Microprocessors Laboratory * Multicore and Embedded Systems Laboratory * Open Laboratory * Radio Frequency Intergrated Circuit * Student Projects Laboratory * Synopsys IC Design Laboratory * Xilinx Design Laboratory Give to SJSU Engineering@EEatSJSU@SJSU_EE Contact UsElectrical EngineeringSan JosState University One Washington Square San Jose, CA 95192-0084 Phone: 408-924-3950 Fax: 408-924-3925Office location: ENGR 349Office hours: M-F 09:00-12:00 14:00-17:00Electrical Engineering Department is closed during the period of "Shelter-in-Place" order. If you need to contact the department for essential matters, Please send us an email:electrical.engineering[at]sjsu[dot]eduEngineering Building HoursCampus Map/DirectionsParking Garages/Hours Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty & Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Applied Sciences & Arts Business Education Engineering Humanities & the Arts International & Extended Studies Science Social Sciences Quick Links Academics BookStore Budget Central Canvas Careers & Jobs King Library Parking & Maps Contact Us Contact Directory Report a problem with this website San Jos State University One Washington Square, San Jos, CA 95192 408-924-1000 2015 SJSU Charles W. DavidsonCollege of Engineering San Jos State UniversityOne Washington Square,San Jos, CA 95192-0080 Tel: 408-924-3800 Fax: 408-924-3818
