Choo, Chang Y | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Choo, Chang YSan Jos State University Site Navigation Teaching Publications & Presentations SJSU Home>People>Choo, Chang Y Choo, Chang Y one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Publications & Presentations Teaching Professor, Electrical EngineeringDirector, AI/ML FPGA/DSP Systems Laboratory Email Preferred: chang.choo@sjsu.edu Telephone Preferred: (408) 924-3980 In Silicon Valley, you will very often get a faster response by sending an email than leaving a voice message. Office Hours Summer-Fall2020: By e-mail only ENG253/ENG386/ENG305 Education Ph.D., Computer and Systems Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1986 M.S., Operations Research and Statistics,Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1982 Bio Dr. Chang "Charles" Choo is currently Professor of Electrical Engineering at San Jose State University, San Jose, California. Also, he is currently Director of DSP/FPGA Design Laboratory and Digital Media Laboratory. Dr. Choo conducted research on digital image and audio processing and computer vision, and corresponding hardware (FPGA/VLSI/ASIC/GPU) and software SoC co-design. He is currently doing research on FPGA/GPU-based Computer Vision/DNN/AI/DSP heterogeneous system/accelerator design for autonomous vehicle navigation (driverless car, drone, and agricultural tractor), includingreal-time illumination/view-independent object recognition algorithm for driverless car on FPGA and GPU system,and wideband acoustic echo and noise cancellation for wearable technology. He has over 100 journal and conference publications and 8 patents in these areas. He taught Computer Architecture,VLSI Design for AI, DSP and Communications, Digital Image processing, Digital Logic Circuit Design, Digital Design Using HDL, Programmable Architectures for DSP (TI DSP Processor Architectures), Microprocessor Systems Design, Advanced Topics in Computer Vision, Graphics and CAD, FPGA Design of Video and Image Processing Algorithms (1-day short course given in 2010 and 2009 SPIE Electronic Imaging Conference), and FPGA DSP Systems Design (4-day short course to engineers and managers, as well as semester-long graduate course). Dr. Choo was Senior Member of Technical Staff with Altera Corp. (Intel now) for two years from January 1999. From 1986 to 1998, he was a faculty member and Director of DSP Lab with Electrical Engineering Department at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), Worcester, Massachusetts, and, later, at San Jose State University. He was a technical consultant for various local Silicon Valley companies including National Semiconductor (Texas Instruments now), Philips Semiconductor, Skybox Imaging (Google now), Novariant (AgJunction now), and Ricoh Innovations. He was Associate Editor for Journal of Real-Time Image Processing, Springer, andMember of Technical Committee with several professional conferences includingSPIE,Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers,DesignConand DSP World/ICSPAT. He also served as an expert witness in the intellectual property (IP) court cases involving audio and video compression and processing algorithm and FPGA hardware. Dr. Choo received his PhD in computer and systems engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), Troy, New York. He has MS/BS in engineering from Seoul National University, Korea. SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Jul 18, 2020
