Badawy, Mohamed | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Badawy, MohamedSan Jos State University Site Navigation Courses Publications Presentations Professional & Service Activity Research & Scholarly Activity Electric Vehicles Renewable Energy Systems Efficient Power Electronic Converters New Research Topics SJSU Home>People>Badawy, Mohamed Badawy, Mohamed one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Electric Vehicles Renewable Energy Systems Power Factor Correction Assistant ProfessorElectrical Engineering DepartmentEng-361 Email Preferred: mohamed.badawy@sjsu.edu Alternate: eng.m.badawy@ieee.org Telephone Preferred: (408)924-3924 Education Doctor of Philosophy, The University of Akron, 2016 Master of Science, The University of Akron, 2012 Bachelor of Science, Cairo University, 2007 Bio Dr. MohamedBadawy isan Assistant Professor in the Electrical Engineering Department at San Jose State University. He joined the department in Fall 2016 as an assistant professor. Dr. Badawy is the director of the Center of Power Electronic Converters (CPEC) that he established after joining the department. The CPEC serves the research needs in the power electronics area, and it also supports the power electronic classes in both undergraduate and graduate levels. Prior to joining SJSU, Dr. Badawy was a graduate assistant at the University of Akron, OH where he recieved his M.Sc. and his Ph.D degrees. Dr. Badawy has 3 years of industrial experience when he worked for PGESCo (a Bechtel Corporation company) as an electrical field engineer in mega watts power generation projects. Please refer to the top navigationbar for more information about Dr. Badawy's research interests, taught courses, publications and professional services. Links Linkedin profile SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 12, 2020
