Morelos-Zaragoza, Robert H | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Morelos-Zaragoza, Robert HSan Jos State University Site Navigation Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity SJSU Home>People>Morelos-Zaragoza, Robert H Morelos-Zaragoza, Robert H one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Professor, Electrical Engineering Email Preferred: robert.morelos-zaragoza@sjsu.edu Telephone Preferred: (408) 924-3879 Professor Morelos-Zaragoza teaches undergraduate and graduate courses in digital communications. He also directs MSEE projects and thesis on topics related to the following areas: Error correcting coding (ECC); DSP algorithms for communication systems and networks; software-defined radio; and radio-frequency identification(RFID) systems. Education Doctor of Philosophy, Electrical Engineering, University of Hawaii At Manoa, 1992 MSEE, Communications, National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), 1987 BSEE, Electronics and Communications,National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), 1985 Bio Robert H. Morelos-Zaragoza was born in Houma, Louisiana, U.S.A. He received the BSEE and MSEE degrees from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) in 1985 and 1987, respectively, and the PhD degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Hawaii at Manoa, in 1992. He was an Assistant Professor at Instituto Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM) of Mexico in 1992-1993. In 1993-1995, he held postdoctoral positions at Osaka University, Japan, and Nara Instutue of Science and Technology, Japan. Robert was a research associate of Imai Laboratory of the University of Tokyo, in 1995-1997. During the period 1997-1999, he was a staff member of the Channel Coding Group of LSI Logic Corporation. In 1999-2002, he was a researcher of Sony Computer Science Laboratories (Sony CSL) in Tokyo, Japan. Robert joined the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering of SJSU, as an associate professor, in August 2002. Since 2004, he has been a consultant for companies such as Intel, SanDisk and Iberium on applications of error correcting coding to high-reliability memory servers, flash memories and digital TV broadcast receivers. His research interests include error correcting coding (ECC/FEC), advanced digital communication receiver design, software-defined radio (SDR), space-time signal processing techniques and ultra-wideband (UWB) communication systems. Prof. Morelos-Zaragoza is a senior member of IEEE, and member of IEICE (Japan) and of Eta Kappa Nu. Links The art of error correcting coding Linkedin SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 12, 2020
