UCB Population Science | University of California, Berkeley Jump to navigation CEDA Population Center Demography DEPT Bixby Center BIMI Search form Search ResearchCenters Programs ResourcesComputing Data Grant Writing Journals Population Centers Poster Sessions Training GrantsCEDA Pilots PopCenter Pilots NIH Funding People PublicationsBerkeley Population Classics News & EventsNews Events Calendar Brown Bags Conferences Contact People Ronald Lee Professor of the Graduate School Center: CEDA, Demography Department, Population Center Departments: Demography Keywords: mathematical demography, intergenerational transfers, economic demography Themes: Mortality Measurement, Macro Consequences of Global Aging Email: rlee@demog.berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 685-3727 Office: 2232 Piedmont Ave. (office hours by appointment) Visit website Download CV ABOUT Ronald Lee is a demographer and economist, with a MA in Demography from Berkeley and a Ph.D. in Economics from Harvard. Since 1979 he has been at the University of California at Berkeley, currently as a Professor of the Graduate School in Demography and Economics. He is the founding Director of the Center for the Economics and Demography of Aging at Berkeley, now Associate Director. Throughout his career, he has taught economic demography. His current research focuses on the macroeconomic consequences of changing population age distributions and on intergenerational transfers and population aging. For 18 years he co-directed with Andrew Mason the National Transfer Accounts project, which includes collaborating research teams in more than 60 countries, and estimates intergenerational flows of resources through the public and private sectors (NTAccounts.org). He continues to work on modeling and forecasting demographic variables including mortality and on evolutionary biodemography, in particular the role of intergenerational transfers in life history theory. From 2010-2015 he co-chaired a National Academy of Sciences Committee on the Long-run Macroeconomic Effects of the Aging U.S. Population. He is an elected member of the US National Academy of Sciences, American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy; he is a former President of the Population Association of America and a Laureate of the international population association, the IUSSP. He holds honorary doctorates from the universities of Lund and Montreal. CV:Downloadable above Downloadable Papers:This pageincludes all of Ron Lee's downloadable papers, including but not limited to those pertaining to aging.) NBER Profile:AnNBER profileof Ron Lee, in theNBER Bulletin on Aging and Health Copyright 2017 UC Regents. University of California, Berkeley | College of Letters & Science Population Sciences at Berkeley | University of California Berkeley CA 94720-2120 E-mail: popcenter@demog.berkeley.edu UCB Privacy Statement | Disclaimer For website updates, please contact web@demog.berkeley.edu
