History of Women Faculty in Economics | Department of Economics Jump to navigation Facebook Twtitter Instagram Linkedin Search form Search AboutAbout Us History of Women Faculty in Economics Chairs & Managers Staff Research Centers E-newsletter Signup Resources NewsEvents Newsroom Newsletter Publications FacultyFaculty Profiles Emeritus Affiliates In Memoriam GraduateGraduate Program Admissions Current Students Graduate Profiles Employment 2020-2021 Ph.D. Job Market Candidates UndergraduateUndergraduate Program Advising Course Enrollment Prospective Majors Current Majors Student Organizations Commencement Tutoring FAQ CoursesCourse List Seminars This Week's Seminars Next Week's Seminars GiveCharter Hill Society for Economics Give today Climate AlumniNetwork Submit a note Events Alumni Notes About History of Women Faculty in Economics History of Women Faculty in Economics(This page is a placeholder. Come back to this same URL in a few weeks to see the official page! It's way cool!)In celebration of the 150th anniversary of women being admitted to U.C. Berkeley "on equal terms in all respects with young men," we offer this history of women faculty in the Economics Department.The Economics Department at U.C. Berkeley was founded in 1903. In its second year, two women were hired: Jessica Peixotto and Lucy Sprague. Professor Peixotto was hired first as a "lecturer in sociology" and then as an Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor of Social Economics. Dr. Peixotto was the first woman on the Berkeley faculty to be awarded the rank of full professor. Lucy Sprague served only one year in the Economics department as a "reader in economics" before becoming the Dean of Women and a lecturer in the English department.Jessica Peixotto was the first but not the only woman faculty member in the department. In the early 20th century, several other women were hired by the Economics department as faculty: Lucy Stebbins, Lillian Matthews, Lucile Eaves, Louise Morrow, Clara Mortenson, Caroline Schleef, Barbara Grimes Armstrong, Emily Huntington, and others. With the notable exception of Professor Huntington, however, all these women were faculty of "Social Economics." Indeed by the mid-1930s, 5 of the 29 faculty listed in the course catalog were women.In 1939 the Department of Social Welfare was created, and the women who had been teaching courses such as "The Control of Poverty," "Studies in Standards of Living," "Economics of Consumption," and "Social Insurance" moved from Economics to Social Welfare. By the end of World War II, only 1 woman remained active on the Economics faculty: Emily Huntington. After her retirement in 1961, the department had no women faculty.The second wave of women in economics begins in 1974 with the hiring of Clair Brown, followed a few years later by Laura Tyson and Joan Hannon. Irma Adelman joins the department as a full professor in 1980, though her primary appointment was in Agricultural and Resource Economics. With the hiring of Alessandra Casella, Bronwyn Hall, and Christina Romer in 1988 and 1989, the modern era was fully underway.We have assembled here biographical sketches of some of these women. Interviews with Clair Brown, Joan Hannon, and Laura Tyson form the basis of those articles. We also interviewed the son of Dr. Margaret Gordon who served as a Lecturer in the Economics department in the late 1960s and early 1970s, banned by anti-nepotism laws from taking a faculty appointment in the same department as her husband, Robert Aaron Gordon. Jessica PeixottoYears active: 1904-1934 Lucy Ward StebbinsYears active: 1911-1940 Barbara Grimes ArmstrongYears active: 1919-1927 Years as a lecturer: 1969-1978 The history of women in the Department of Economics is complicated and it remains unclear whether Margaret Gordon preferred or pursued greater opportunities within the department. In the same field as her husband, Robert (Aaron) Gordon, she was ineligible for a ladder-faculty position due to former anti-nepotism rules. She prioritized her role at home when many young academics in her position would be establishing their careers. Highly educated and industrious, she remained active through civic leadership and research roles while juggling full-time responsibilities for her two children. To learn more about her personal qualities, we interviewed her eldest son, Robert (Bob) Gordon, a professor of economics at Northwestern University. . . She took the anti-nepotism fate that had cast her into this supporting role as a fait accompli. And she never complained about it and very rarely speculated. Read more . . . Clair BrownYears active: 1974 - present Clair Brown was the first woman to be hired for a tenure track faculty position at the Berkeley Economics Department, since the beginning of World War II. A native of Florida, Brown completed her Ph.D. in economics with a focus on Labor Economics at the University of Maryland. She joined the Berkeley economics department in January 1974. Brown was not just witness to but was also instrumental in increasing womens presence in Berkeleys Economics Department. A math major at Wellesley, Clair wanted to help make the world a better place. It was the 1960s and change was at the forefront of most college students minds. Ultimately, Clair realized there wasnt much social reform to be done with mathematical proofs. Read more . . . Joan Underhill HannonYears active: 1977-1986 Joan Underhill Hannon joined the Berkeley Economics department in 1977, upon completion of her Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Raised in Long Beach, CA and a graduate of UC Santa Cruz, Hannon is an economic historian whose research focuses on 19th century U.S. immigration and poverty. At Berkeley, Hannon taught graduate and undergraduate courses in economic history. Hannon was denied tenure in 1985. She subsequently moved to and was tenured at St. Marys College of California in nearby Moraga, from where she retired in the 2010s. Hannons experience and ultimate departure from Berkeley is an important part of the fabric of women facultys experience. Hannons politics and intellectual lens always put her more in what is now termed the heterodox camp of economics, and what was in the 1970s and 1980s termed the Marxist or leftist camp. Read more . . . Laura D'Andrea TysonYears active: 1977 - present Professor Tyson was born in Bayonne, New Jersey in 1947. Growing up during a period of rising economic prosperity, a growing middle class, emerging civil rights and gender equality movements, and cold war geopolitical conflict, Tyson found herself drawn to public policy. Her father received his college education through the GI Bill, and she grew up in a home where college education was highly valued as the foundation of a middle class life. Tyson attended a small co-ed Catholic high school, where Catholic do good ideals aligned with the potential for positive impact through policy. Here, she also discovered her talent for math. She was encouraged by consistent support from her teachers who were mostly nuns, including a tough-minded, demanding math teacher a contrast to the girls arent good at math narrative that persists in high school classrooms today. Read more . . . 9/24/2020Author: Martha Olney (olney@berkeley.edu) About About Us History of Women Faculty in Economics Chairs & Managers Staff Research Centers E-newsletter Signup Resources What's New Publications News Events Research & Teaching Contact details How to reach us LOCATION 530 Evans Hall #3880 Berkeley, California 94720-3880 Directions and delivery information OFFICE HOURS 9:00 AM - 4:00 PM TELEPHONE (510) 642-0822 Fax: (510) 642-6615 E-MAIL econdept@berkeley.edu Copyright 2015 UC Regents. University of California, Berkeley | College of Letters & Science 530 Evans Hall #3880, Berkeley, California 94720-3880Tel: (510) 642-0822 / Fax: (510) 642-6615 / E-mail: econdept@berkeley.edu UCB Privacy Statement | DisclaimerFor website updates, please contact web@econ.berkeley.edu
