Shoufa Lin | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles Shoufa Lin Professor, Structural Geology (Associate Dean International Programs)Shoufa Lin'sresearch focuses on structural geology and its applications for mineral deposit study and exploration. A major part of hisresearch concerns the structural and tectonic evolution of orogenic belts, Archean tectonics and kinematics and tectonic significance of shear zones. Professor Lin also leads the University of Waterloo's Science 2+2collaborative undergraduate exchange program with China. Contact informationOffice: ESC 205 Phone: 519-888-4567, ext.36557Email: shoufa@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Structural geology, plate tectonics Mineral and resource exploration Research ProfessorLin's research focuses on structural geology and its applications to the study of and exploration for mineral deposits. A major part of his research is concerned with the structural and tectonic evolution of orogenic belts, Archean tectonics and kinematics and tectonic significance of shear zones. His research into the economic aspects of structural geology deals with both structural controls on emplacement and structural modification of the geometry and location of mineral deposits. ProfessorLin's research is mostly field based with sites in the Canadian Appalachians, the Canadian Cordillera, the Superior and Slave cratons and other parts of Canada, and various parts of China. Teaching Professor Lin leads the University of Waterloo'sScience 2+2exchange program with China. His course offerings have included Introductory Structural Geology; Advanced Structural Geology; Methods in Geological Field Mapping; various courses at the graduate level. Highlighted Publications Please seeShoufaLin'sGoogleScholaror ResearchGateprofilesfor a current list of his peer-reviewed articles. Recent publications include Wu, M., Lin, S., Wan, Y., Gao, G., 2016. Crustal evolution of the Eastern Block in the North China Craton: constraints from zircon U-Pb geochronology and Lu-Hf isotopes of the Northern Liaoning Complex. Precambrian Research, doi:10.1016/j.precamres.2015.12.013. Cleven, N.R., Lin, S., Xiao, W.J., 2015. The Hongliuhe fold-and-thrust belt: Evidence of terminal collision and suture-reactivation after the Early Permian in the Beishan orogenic collage, Northwest China. Gondwana Research, v. 27, p. 796810. Cleven, N., Lin, S., Guilmette, C., Xiao, W., Davis, B. 2015. Petrogenesis and implications for tectonic setting of Cambrian suprasubduction-zone ophiolitic rocks in the central Beishan orogenic collage, Northwest China. Journal of Asian Earth Sciences, v. 113, p. 369390, doi:10.1016/j.jseaes.2014.10.038. Li, L., Lin, S., Xing, G., Ren, S., Li, J. 2014. Petrogenesis and mantle source characteristics of Cenozoic alkaline diabase, Jiangxi Province, southeastern China. International Geology Review, V. 56, No. 16, 19191931. http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00206814.2014.971447. Li, L., Lin, S., Davis, D.W., Xiao, W., Xing, G., Yin, C., 2014. Geochronology and geochemistry of igneous rocks from the Kongling terrane: Implications for Mesoarchean to Paleoproterozoic crustal evolution of the Yangtze Block. Precambrian Research, v. 255, p. 3047. Awards and Distinctions 2014 Outstanding Performance Award 2004 W.W. Hutchison Medal of theGeological Association of Canada 2004 William Harvey Gross Medal of the Mineral Deposits Division of the Geological Association of Canada 2001 Ontario Premiers Research Excellence Award 1998 Best Paper Award of the Structural Geology and Tectonics Division of the Geological Association of Canada 1993 Governor-General's Gold Medal 1992 Best Thesis Award of the Structural Geology and Tectonics Division of the Geological Association of Canada University of Waterloo Affiliations Associate Dean, International Programs, Faculty of Science Program head, Science 2+2 Program Professional Associations and Service GEOLOGY Editorial Board Member Mentorship Medal Committee Chair, Canadian Federation of Earth Sciences Degrees 1992 PhD Geology, University of New Brunswick,Fredericton, New Brunswick Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (42)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
