David L. Rudolph | Earth and Environmental Sciences | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental SciencesHistory of the Department Image gallery Research groupsResearch areas Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreachFarvolden Lecture Series and Symposium Adrian Smith Lecture Series News Events Undergraduate studentsPrograms CoursesAdvanced Standing Dual Credit Professional Geoscientist certification (APGO) Co-op information Academic advisors Program checklists ScholarshipsEntrance scholarships Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsPrograms Funding and awards How to apply Opportunities for Graduate Students Student lifeEarth Sciences Graduate Association Contact us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Earth and Environmental Sciences Earth and Environmental Sciences home About Earth and Environmental Sciences Our people Degrees and programs Research Community outreach News Events Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Earth and Environmental SciencesPeople profiles David L. Rudolph Professor, Groundwater (Chair)David Rudolphcarries out research in groundwater management with a focus on innovative ways to monitor water resources in the face of changing land use andclimate. Professor Rudolph was named the 2013Henry Darcy Distinguished Lecturer in Ground Water Science by the US National Groundwater Association, one of the most prestigious career awards in this field. Contact informationOffice: EIT 2033Phone: 519-888-4567, ext. 36778Email: drudolph@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Groundwater resource management, includingprotection of publicdrinking waterwells, Beneficial ManagementPractices (BMPs) at the local and regional levels, and the impact of agricultural land use on groundwater quality Groundwater flow and contaminanttransport modeling, specificallyinmassive and macroporousmedia Hydrology of the shallow subsurface including flow and solute transport behaviour in unsaturated porous media Real-time monitoring of surface and groundwater flow and water quality Research ProfessorRudolph and histeam are currentlyworking to develop a smart watershed data platform network that captures andanalyzesnear real-time information across anentiresubwatershedwithin theGrand River Watershedin Southern Ontario. The network is designed to respond to real-time events like rainstorms and floods to provide much needed water management data to scientists, managers and policy makers. The projectisconductedin collaboration withSOLINSTCanada Ltd.,IBM Canada, andthe Southern Ontario Water Consortium, a multi-institutional consortium that supports capacity for the development and testing of innovations in watershed management. Professor Rudolph has also studiedhow the nature of groundwater quality has been impacted from agricultural land-use practices, at both local and regional scales, with a specific focus on nitrate and microbial indicator species. His field experiments and findings have helped local municipalities save millions of dollars in avoided water treatment plant costs. Teaching Professor Rudolph teaches both undergraduate and graduate courses. Course offerings have included EARTH 123: Introductory Hydrology EARTH 458:Physical Hydrogeology EARTH 654 Groundwater Research Management (graduate course) Highlighted Publications Recent publications include Rudolph, D.L., 2014. Groundwater quality within the agricultural landscape: Assessing the performance of nutrient BMPs. Ground Water Mon. and Remediation, 35, no.1, Winter 2015, 21-22. Rudolph, D.L., Devlin, J. F. and Bekeris, L., 2015. Challenges and a strategy for agricultural BMP monitoring and remediation of nitrate contamination in unconsolidated aquifers. Ground Water Mon. and Remediation, 35, no.1, Winter 2015, 97-109. Critchley, K., Rudolph, D. L., Devlin, J.F. and Schillig, P. C., 2014. Stimulating In situ Denitrification in an Aerobic, Highly Permeable Municipal Drinking Water Aquifer. J. of Cont. Hydrology, 171, 66-80. Frind, E. O., Russell, H. A. J., Rudolph, D. L. and Sharpe, D. R., 2014. The Waterloo Moraine:Water, science and policy. Canadian Water Resources Journal / Revue canadienne des ressources hydriques, 39:2, 85-87, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/07011784.2014.914793. Sousa, M.R., Frind, E. O., and Rudolph, D. L., 2014. Threats to groundwater resources in urbanizing watersheds: The Waterloo Moraine and beyond. Can. Wat. Res. Journal, Vol. 39, number 2, 193-208. Patents Multilevel Waveguide for Profiling Water Content and Bulk Electrical Conductivity Using TimeDomain Reflectometry. Official Application Number: 9406916.8, Official Filing Date: April 7, 1994 Inventors: P.A. Ferre, D.L. Rudolph, R.G. Kachanoski Awards and Distinctions 2013Henry Darcy Distinguished Lecturer in Ground Water Science,National Ground WaterAssociation 2010M. King Hubbard Award, National Ground Water Association 2002 Hydrogeology Departmental Merit Award, NRCan 2002 Earth Sciences Sector Merit Award, NRCan 1986 NSERC Postgraduate Scholarship (Ph.D. 1986-1988) 1983 NSERC Postgraduate Scholarship (M.Sc. 1983-1985) 1980 University Gold Medal in Geological Engineering University of WaterlooAffiliations Member and Former Director, The Water Institute Professional Associations and Service Member of American Geophysical Union, Canadian Geophysical Union, National Ground Water Association, of Geological Society of America and the International Association of Hydrogeologists Member of Ontario Provincial Advisory Committee on the Nutrient Management Act and Regulations Member of Ontario Technical Experts Committee on Source Water Protection Principal of Waterloo Hydrogeology Advisors Inc. Board Member, NationalAssociationof Ground Water Scientists and Engineers (NGWA) Liaison for the Geological Society of America with the National Ground Water Association Associate Editor for the journal Ground Water Associate Editor for the journal Hydrogeology Journal Registered Professional Engineer in Ontario (PEO) Media The following news stories have featured Professor Rudolph's research: August 14, 2014Monitoring the watershed in real-time May 8, 2014Water Institute Symposium 2014: The Future of Groundwater Research March 7, 2013Dr. David Rudolph named 2013 Darcy Lecturer! Degrees 1989PhD Earth Sciences (Hydrogeology) University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON 1985 MSc Earth Sciences (Hydrogeology) University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON 1980 BSc in Engineering, (Geological) University of Manitoba, Winnepeg, MN Registered ProfessionalEngineer in Ontario (PEO) Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (42)Research Areas (34)Applied and engineering geology (4)Biogeochemistry and ecohydrology (9)Earth surface system (9)Groundwater (11)Isotope geochemistry and hydrology (7)Solid Earth (6)Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researchers (3) TOP Share Dept of Earth & Environmental SciencesCentre for Environmental and Information Technology (EIT) 200 University Ave. W Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 Contact Earth and Environmental SciencesWork for Earth and Environmental Sciences Affiliations Earth Sciences MuseumPeter Russell Rock GardenWat on Earth educational newsletter Provide website feedback University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
