Philippe Van Cappellen | Ecohydrology Research Group | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Ecohydrology Research Group home About the Ecohydrology Research GroupCourses Outreach Our peoplePrevious Group Members ResearchFacilities Field Sites Completed Theses Writing Resources Events News Positions Available Publications World Wetlands DayWorld Wetlands Day 2014 World Wetlands Day 2015 World Wetlands Day 2016 World Wetlands Day 2017 World Wetlands Day 2018 World Wetlands Day 2019 World Wetlands Day 2020 UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Ecohydrology Research Group Ecohydrology Research Group home About the Ecohydrology Research Group Our people Research Events News Positions Available Publications World Wetlands Day Ecohydrology Research GroupPeople profiles Philippe Van Cappellen Canada Excellence Research Chair Laureate in Ecohydrology My research focuses on the biogeochemistry of soils, sediments and aquatic ecosystems, the cycles of water, carbon, nutrients and metals, global change, geobiology, chemical hydrology, water-rock interactions and environmental modeling. At the University of Waterloo, I lead the research program in ecohydrology. Geomicrobiology: microbial degradation of organic matter,redoxand acid-basedynamics of natural waters,geomicrobiologyof metals, interfacial chemistry ofmicroorganisms. Mineral-water interactions: surface chemistry of minerals, kinetics of mineral nucleation,growth and dissolution,biomineralization. Reactive transport modeling: numerical models ofmulticomponentreactive transport insediments, soils, surface waters,hydrothermalsystems and aquifers. Water and elemental cycles, global change, sustainability: carbon and nutrient cycles,land-ocean transition, coastal ecosystems, groundwater-surface water interactions. Biogeochemicalcomplexity: dynamics of coupledgeomicrobialreaction networks,competition andfeedbacksamong metabolic andabioticreaction pathways. Curriculum Vitae Google Scholar Profile Canada Excellence Research Chair Contact Office: EIT 1006A Phone: 519-888-4567 ext. 31319 E-mail: pvc@uwaterloo.ca Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (2)Staff (4)Researcher (13)Graduate student (12)Undergraduate student (1) TOP Share Ecohydrology research group University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
