Profile for Alexandros Voudouris at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Alexandros Voudouris People Dr Alexandros Voudouris Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email alexandros.voudouris@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Academic support hours Friday: 10-11am (autumn term). The zoom link is available on the Moodle pages of CE150 and CF961. Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Research Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Biography I am a Lecturer (Assistant Professor) at the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE), University of Essex, UK. Prior to this, I was a postdoctoral researcher at the Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford, UK. I obtained my PhD in computer science in September 2018 from the University of Patras, Greece. My research interests lie at the intersection of theoretical computer science, artificial intelligence, and microeconomic theory. I am highly interested in the design and analysis of simple algorithms for fundamental problems in algorithmic game theory and computational social choice. For more information about me, please visit my personal page here. Qualifications PhD University of Patras, MSc University of Patras, Diploma (5-year degree) University of Patras, Appointments University of Essex Lecturer, Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, University of Essex (1/4/2020 - present) Other academic Postdoctoral researcher, Computer Science, University of Oxford (1/10/2018 - 31/3/2020) Research and professional activities Research interests Algorithmic Game Theory Open to supervise Computational Social Choice Open to supervise Design and Analysis of Algorithms Open to supervise Algorithmic Mechanism Design Open to supervise Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Intro to Programming with C (CE150) Introduction to Financial Market Analysis (CF961) Current supervision Rongsen Zhang Degree subject: Computational Finance Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Publications Journal articles (14) Caragiannis, I. and Voudouris, A., The efficiency of resource allocation mechanisms for budget-constrained users. Mathematics of Operations Research Madhja, A., Nikoletseas, S. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Energy-aware tree network formation among computationally weak nodes. Computer Networks. 168, 107068-107068 Filos-Ratsikas, A., Micha, E. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). The distortion of distributed voting. Artificial Intelligence. 286, 103343-103343 Kyropoulou, M., Suksompong, W. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Almost Envy-Freeness in Group Resource Allocation. Theoretical Computer Science. 841, 110-123 Voudouris, AA., (2020). Simple combinatorial auctions with budget constraints. Theoretical Computer Science. 842, 6-17 Caragiannis, I., Krimpas, G. and Voudouris, A., (2020). How effective can simple ordinal peer grading be?. ACM Transactions on Economics and Computation. 8 (3), 1-37 Elkind, E., Gan, J., Obraztsova, S., Rabinovich, Z. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Protecting elections by recounting ballots. Artificial Intelligence. 290, 103401-103401 Gan, J., Suksompong, W. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Envy-freeness in house allocation problems. Mathematical Social Sciences. 101, 104-106 Voudouris, AA., (2019). A note on the efficiency of position mechanisms with budget constraints. Information Processing Letters. 143, 28-33 Caragiannis, I., Chatzigeorgiou, X., Krimpas, GA. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Optimizing positional scoring rules for rank aggregation. Artificial Intelligence. 267, 58-77 Madhja, A., Nikoletseas, S. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Adaptive wireless power transfer in mobile ad hoc networks. Computer Networks. 152, 87-97 Abed, F., Caragiannis, I. and Voudouris, AA., (2018). Near-Optimal Asymmetric Binary Matrix Partitions. Algorithmica. 80 (1), 48-72 Caragiannis, I., Chatzigeorgiou, X., Kanellopoulos, P., Krimpas, GA., Protopapas, N. and Voudouris, AA., (2017). Efficiency and complexity of price competition among single-product vendors. Artificial Intelligence. 248, 9-25 Caragiannis, I. and Voudouris, AA., (2016). Welfare Guarantees for Proportional Allocations. Theory of Computing Systems. 59 (4), 581-599 Show all Conferences (20) Agarwal, A., Elkind, E., Gan, J. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Swap Stability in Schelling Games on Graphs Amanatidis, G., Birmpas, G., Filos-Ratsikas, A. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Peeking Behind the Ordinal Curtain: Improving Distortion via Cardinal Queries Amanatidis, G., Birmpas, G., Filos-Ratsikas, A., Hollender, A. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Maximum Nash Welfare and Other Stories About EFX Kanellopoulos, P., Kyropoulou, M. and Voudouris, A., (2020). Modified Schelling Games Madhja, A., Nikoletseas, S. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Mobility-Aware, Adaptive Algorithms for Wireless Power Transfer in Ad Hoc Networks Kyropoulou, M., Suksompong, W. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Almost Envy-Freeness in Group Resource Allocation Elkind, E., Gan, J., Obraztsova, S., Rabinovich, Z. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Protecting elections by recounting ballots Elkind, E., Gan, J., Igarashi, A., Suksompong, W. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). Schelling games on graphs Filos-Ratsikas, A., Micha, E. and Voudouris, AA., (2019). The Distortion of Distributed Voting Madhja, A., Nikoletseas, S., Tsolovos, D. and Voudouris, AA., (2018). Peer-to-Peer Energy-Aware Tree Network Formation Caragiannis, I. and Voudouris, AA., (2018). The Efficiency of Resource Allocation Mechanisms for Budget-Constrained Users Madhja, A., Nikoletseas, S. and Voudouris, AA., (2018). Adaptive Wireless Power Transfer in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Caragiannis, I., Kanellopoulos, P. and Voudouris, AA., (2017). Bounding the inefficiency of compromise Caragiannis, I., Chatzigeorgiou, X., Krimpas, GA. and Voudouris, AA., (2017). Optimizing positional scoring rules for rank aggregation Caragiannis, I., Krimpas, GA. and Voudouris, AA., (2016). How Effective Can Simple Ordinal Peer Grading Be? Caragiannis, I., Krimpas, GA., Panteli, M. and Voudouris, AA., (2016). Co-rank: An online tool for collectively deciding efficient rankings among peers Caragiannis, I., Chatzigeorgiou, X., Kanellopoulos, P., Krimpas, GA., Protopapas, N. and Voudouris, AA., (2015). Efficiency and complexity of price competition among single-product vendors Abed, F., Caragiannis, I. and Voudouris, AA., (2015). Near-Optimal Asymmetric Binary Matrix Partitions Caragiannis, I., Krimpas, GA. and Voudouris, AA., (2015). Aggregating partial rankings with applications to peer grading in massive online open courses Caragiannis, I. and Voudouris, AA., (2014). Welfare Guarantees for Proportional Allocations Show all Reports and Papers (4) Birmpas, G., Gan, J., Hollender, A., Marmolejo-Cosso, FJ., Rajgopal, N. and Voudouris, AA., Optimally Deceiving a Learning Leader in Stackelberg Games Filos-Ratsikas, A. and Voudouris, AA., Approximate mechanism design for distributed facility location Amanatidis, G., Birmpas, G., Filos-Ratsikas, A. and Voudouris, AA., A Few Queries Go a Long Way: Information-Distortion Tradeoffs in Matching Caragiannis, I., Filos-Ratsikas, A., Nath, S. and Voudouris, AA., (2020). Truthful ownership transfer with expert advice: Blending mechanism design with and without money Contact alexandros.voudouris@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus Academic support hours: Friday: 10-11am (autumn term). The zoom link is available on the Moodle pages of CE150 and CF961. More about me personal: http://www.alexvoudouris.com/ WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
