People in the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering | University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. Departments Computer Science and Electronic Engineering People School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering Our people Departments School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering Undergraduate Masters Research Degrees Careers Research Accreditation Scholarships and funding Facilities Equality and inclusion Women in CSEE Working with Business People - Academic - Professional services - Honorary - Research students Events News Discover the people behind computer science and electronic engineering at Essex Our School is home to academic experts, dedicated professionals, and the future of computer science, gaming, electronic engineering, communications and robotics research. Our world-renowned academic experts are involved in a wide range of research projects which have real impact around the world. For example, Dr Davide Valeriani's research focuses on how 'mind-reading' technology can help businesses, surgeons, police officers and others make decisions. Dr Vishuu Mohan is developing new robotic technology to improve the efficiency of strawberry picking, working closely with world-famous jam makers Wilkin & Sons. Professor Stuart Walker has been heavily involved in a Knowledge Transfer Partnership between Essex and ABER Electronics to revolutionise live broadcasting of large sports event, such as the Australian Grand Prix and the Ryder Cup. Our staff are always at the forefront of new research and technology. Discover more about our staff and their research projects. Our academic staff hold various posts within the School, deliver excellence in the teaching of our modules, and conduct research in a wide range of specialisms. Our professional services staff are responsible for the day-to-day operation of the School, supporting the delivery of our teaching and our research. Our research students investigate a broad range of exciting topics and are supervised by our academic staff. Contact details and further information about the specific interests of our staff can be found in their individual profiles. Senior research officer, Dr Praffula Deo, working in one of our labs Dr Mays Al-Nady pushing boundaries towards the future Internet Dr Alba Garcia working with other students and staff as part of the Women in CSEE group which meets regularly Professor Kun Yang teaching about the evolution of the Internet Dr Maria Kyropoulou discussing her work with other students and staff A student and an academic member of staff working closely on a research project Also see Equality and inclusion in CSEE Research in our School Women in CSEE Our honorary staff Life at Essex What it's like to live at Essex Study at Essex Find a course CHAT TO US ASK OUR STUDENTS AND STAFF ANYTHING WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
