Profile for Cunjin Luo at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Cunjin Luo People Dr Cunjin Luo Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email cunjin.luo@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Biography Dr. Cunjin Luo is currently a Lecturer in the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE), University of Essex. Prior to that, he was an Associate Professor in the Key Laboratory of Medical Electrophysiology, Ministry of Education, China. He obtained his joint PhD in Computer Science from Harbin Institute of Technology (HIT) and The University of Manchester (UoM). He is a member of IEEE and an Academic Editor in PLOS ONE. Cunjin's research has mainly focused on tackling challenges of cardiology by using computational approaches. Specifically it covers:(a) multi-scale modelling of the heart, (b) modelling drug effects and mutations, (c) modelling arrhythmias and defibrillation, (d) ECG processing and artificial intelligence, (e) cardiovascular imaging. He has worked on the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC)-funded research grants as PI. Cunjin is always interested in recruiting passionate PhD candidates who want to explore Computational Biology, Healthcare Informatics, and Intelligent Systems. Qualifications PhD, Computer Science Harbin Institute of Technology, Joint PhD, Biophysics University of Manchester, Appointments University of Essex Lecturer, School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (30/3/2020 - present) Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Software Engineering (CE202) Team Project Challenge (CSE) (CE292) Team Project Challenge (EE) (CE293) Team Project Challenge (WBL) (CE299) Team Project Challenge (CE101) Publications Journal articles (7) Evans, M., He, Y., Luo, C., Yevseyeva, I., Janicke, H. and Maglaras, LA., (2019). Employee Perspective on Information Security Related Human Error in Healthcare: Proactive Use of IS-CHEC in Questionnaire Form. IEEE Access. 7, 102087-102101 Evans, M., He, Y., Luo, C., Yevseyeva, I., Janicke, H., Zamani, E. and Maglaras, LA., (2019). Real-Time Information Security Incident Management: A Case Study Using the IS-CHEC Technique. IEEE Access. 7, 142147-142175 Luo, C., Wang, K. and Zhang, H., (2017). In silico assessment of the effects of quinidine, disopyramide and E-4031 on short QT syndrome variant 1 in the human ventricles. PLOS ONE. 12 (6), e0179515-e0179515 Luo, C., Wang, K. and Zhang, H., (2017). Modelling the effects of quinidine, disopyramide, and E-4031 on short QT syndrome variant 3 in the human ventricles. Physiological Measurement. 38 (10), 1859-1873 Luo, C., Wang, K. and Zhang, H., (2017). Effects of amiodarone on short QT syndrome variant 3 in human ventricles: a simulation study. BioMedical Engineering OnLine. 16 (1), 69- Luo, C., Wang, K. and Zhang, H., (2017). Modelling the effects of chloroquine on KCNJ2-linked short QT syndrome. Oncotarget. 8 (63), 106511-106526 Yuan, Y., Bai, X., Luo, C., Wang, K. and Zhang, H., (2015). The virtual heart as a platform for screening drug cardiotoxicity. British Journal of Pharmacology. 172 (23), 5531-5547 Show all Conferences (4) Luo, C., G. Whittaker, D., He, Y., Liu, T., Li, Y., Wang, K., Zhao, N. and Zhang, H., Effects of Taurine-Magnesium Coordination Compound on Type 2 Short QT Syndrome: A Simulation Study Luo, C., Soygazi, H., Janicke, H. and He, Y., (2019). Security Defense Strategy for Intelligent Medical Diagnosis Systems (IMDS) Luo, C., Whittaker, DG., Liu, T., Wang, K., Li, Y., He, Y. and Zhang, H., (2019). Pharmacotherapeutic Effects of Quinidine on Short QT Syndrome by Using Purkinje-Ventricle Model: A Simulation Study Luo, C., Wang, K. and Zhang, H., (2017). Effects of island-distribution of mid-cardiomyocytes on ventricular electrical excitation associated with the KCNQ1-linked short QT syndrome Contact cunjin.luo@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
