Profile for Vito De Feo at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Vito De Feo People Dr Vito De Feo Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email vito.defeo@essex.ac.uk Location 5A.521, Colchester Campus Academic support hours My Academic Support Hours will be 15-16 on Friday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE701 course Moodle page. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Biography Vito De Feo is a lecturer of Intelligent Systems for Brain and Mental Health in CSEE. His research interests include embedded neuromorphic control systems for bidirectional closed-loop Brain-Machine Interfaces (BMIs), application of machine learning, and statistics to neural signal encoding/decoding, state-dependent neural encoders and decoders, technology-mediated rehabilitation and assistive technologies, and novel measures of information transfer in the brain. He holds a MSc in Electronic Engineering from Politecnico di Torino (Italy). He obtained a PhD in Telecommunication from Politecnico di Torino (Italy). During his PhD, he spent 14 months at the University of Stanford (US). He also studied Neuropsychology at the University of Turin (Italy). In 2009 he was a senior researcher at Trinity College Dublin (Ireland) on optical communication. From 2013, he worked at the Clinical University of Hamburg-Eppendorf specializing in signal processing and causal analysis of biological signals. From 2015 he worked at the Italian Institute of Technology specializing in neural population coding, neuroelectronic, and information theory. He has recently successfully coordinated and led the Covid-19 efforts of the university, having established research links in the East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust (ESNEFT). Qualifications PhD in Electronics and Communications Polytechnic University of Turin, MsC in Electronic Engineering Polytechnic University of Turin, Appointments University of Essex Lecturer, Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, University of Essex (4/11/2019 - present) Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities Team Project Challenge (CE101) Artificial Intelligence (CE213) Theory of Signals and Systems (CE701) Machine Learning and Data Mining (CE802) Publications Journal articles (9) Piazza, M., De Feo, V., Panzeri, S. and Dehaene, S., (2018). Learning to focus on number. Cognition. 181, 35-45 De Feo, V., Boi, F., Safaai, H., Onken, A., Panzeri, S. and Vato, A., (2017). State-Dependent Decoding Algorithms Improve the Performance of a Bidirectional BMI in Anesthetized Rats. Frontiers in Neuroscience. 11 (MAY), 269- Boi, F., Moraitis, T., De Feo, V., Diotalevi, F., Bartolozzi, C., Indiveri, G. and Vato, A., (2016). A Bidirectional Brain-Machine Interface Featuring a Neuromorphic Hardware Decoder. Frontiers in Neuroscience. 10, 563- Panzeri, S., Safaai, H., De Feo, V. and Vato, A., (2016). Implications of the Dependence of Neuronal Activity on Neural Network States for the Design of Brain-Machine Interfaces. Frontiers in Neuroscience. 10 (APR), 165- Hartung, H., Cichon, N., De Feo, V., Riemann, S., Schildt, S., Lindemann, C., Mulert, C., Gogos, JA. and Hanganu-Opatz, IL., (2016). From Shortage to Surge: A Developmental Switch in HippocampalPrefrontal Coupling in a GeneEnvironment Model of Neuropsychiatric Disorders. Cerebral Cortex. 26 (11), 4265-4281 Hartung, H., Brockmann, MD., Pschel, B., De Feo, V. and Hanganu-Opatz, IL., (2016). Thalamic and Entorhinal Network Activity Differently Modulates the Functional Development of PrefrontalHippocampal Interactions. The Journal of Neuroscience. 36 (13), 3676-3690 Domnick, N-K., Gretenkord, S., De Feo, V., Sedlacik, J., Brockmann, MD. and Hanganu-Opatz, IL., (2015). Neonatal hypoxiaischemia impairs juvenile recognition memory by disrupting the maturation of prefrontalhippocampal networks. Experimental Neurology. 273, 202-214 Antonino, A., Bianco, A., Bianciotto, A., De Feo, V., Finochietto, JM., Gaudino, R. and Neri, F., (2008). WONDER: A resilient WDM packet network for metro applications. Optical Switching and Networking. 5 (1), 19-28 Carena, A., DeFeo, V., Finochietto, JM., Gaudino, R., Neri, F., Piglione, C. and Poggiolini, P., (2004). RingO: An Experimental WDM Optical Packet Network for Metro Applications. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications. 22 (8), 1561-1571 Show all Conferences (8) Antonino, A., De Feo, V., Finochietto, JM., Gaudino, R., La Porta, A., Petracca, M. and Neri, F., (2008). Toward feasible all-optical packet networks: Recent results on the WONDER experimental testbed Antonino, A., De Feo, V., Finochietto, JM., Gaudino, R., La Porta, A., Petracca, M. and Neri, F., (2008). Toward Feasible All-Optical Packet Networks: Recent Results on the WONDER Experimental Testbed Antonino, A., Birke, R., De Feo, V., Finocchietto, JM., Gaudino, R., La Porta, A., Neri, F. and Petracca, M., (2007). The WONDER testbed: architecture and experimental demonstration Bianciotto, A., de Feo, V., Gaudino, R., la Porta, A., Neri, F. and Petracca, M., (2006). Experimentation of single-hop WDM rings for metro and distributed switching applications (2003). Next Generation Optical Network Design and Modelling Carena, A., Ferrero, V., Gaudino, R., De Feo, V., Neri, F. and Poggiolini, P., (2003). RINGO: A demonstrator of WDM optical packet network on a ring topology Gaudino, R., De Feo, V., Chiaberge, M. and Sanso, C., (2002). An FPGA-based Node Controller for a High Capacity WDM Optical Packet Network Gaudino, R., Carena, A., Ferrero, V., Pozzi, A., De Feo, V., Gigante, P., Neri, F. and Poggiolini, P., (2001). RINGO: A WDM ring optical packet network demonstrator Show all Contact vito.defeo@essex.ac.uk Location: 5A.521, Colchester Campus Academic support hours: My Academic Support Hours will be 15-16 on Friday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE701 course Moodle page. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. More about me Google Scholar Follow me on social media WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
