Profile for Giorgos Papanastasiou at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Giorgos Papanastasiou People Dr Giorgos Papanastasiou Lecturer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email g.papanastasiou@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Academic support hours My Academic Support Hours will be 09:00-10:00 am on Friday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE156/CE157 course MOODLE pages. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Teaching and supervision Publications Contact Profile Biography Dr Giorgos Papanastasiou is currently an Assistant Professor (UK Lecturer) in Artificial Intelligence and Engineering in Medicine, at the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, of the University of Essex, UK. From 2015-2020, Dr Papanastasiou was a Research Fellow in Computational Imaging and Data Analysis, working in Multi-modal (MRI, PET-CT, PET-MRI, CT, Ultrasound) imaging and analysis techniques at the Edinburgh Imaging-Queens Medical Research Institute (QMRI) department, of the University of Edinburgh. During this career step, Dr Papanastasiou was also Assistant Manager of the Image (and Data) Analysis lab, in the Edinburgh Imaging-QMRI department. He has broad experience on advanced data analysis techniques involving Medical Image Computing, Kinetic Modelling, Machine learning, Computational Data Analysis and Statistical and Mathematical Modelling. Dr Papanastasiou has developed Imaging and Analysis protocols in various Clinical Research projects, and he has contributed as Principal Investigator and co-Investigator in various clinical, technical and commercial studies in Biomedical Research. His work aims to develop clinically useful novel biomarkers to improve early diagnosis, predict diseases, monitor response to new treatments and therapies, and to support drug discovery. Dr Papanastasiou was a Principal Investigator in the commercial research agreement with Athersys (158,507) and Co-Investigator in the OPTIMAT project (677,094) and the "Digital Platform of an AI-aided pipeline for drug development in targeted therapy of cancer" project (220,000). Dr Papanastasiou has contributed to 12 research studies, including four clinical research studies (MEMRI, Cardiac Care, EVOLVED, PREFFIR). To date, his total contribution to funding activities awarded reach the amount of 1,549,519. Dr Papanastasiou completed a BSc.Eng degree in Material Science and Engineering (5-year degree), at the University of Ioannina, Greece. He has also received a MSc degree in Biomedical Engineering, from the National Technical University of Athens and University of Patras, Greece and during the second year of his MSc, he accomplished an internship and a master thesis at the University Medical Centre of Groningen, The Netherlands (departments of Medical Physics and Medical Biology/Biomedical Engineering, respectively). He also completed a MSc.R (MSc by Research) degree in Cardiovascular Biology from the School of Clinical Sciences of the University of Edinburgh, UK during which he gained broad expertise in Bioinformatics, Bioengineering and Medical Physics, across various research projects. Further, Dr Papanastasiou received a PhD degree in Medical Physics and Mathematical modelling at the Edinburgh Imaging-QMRI and the British Heart Foundation-Centre for Cardiovascular Science of the University of Edinburgh, under the supervision of Professor Scott Semple. Qualifications PhD in Computational Imaging and Medical Physics University of Edinburgh, (2015) MSc.R in Cardiovascular Biology (Bioengineering, Bioinformatics, Medical Physics) University of Edinburgh, (2011) MSc in Biomedical Engineering National Technical University of Athens,and University of Patras, Greece; University Medical Centre of Groningen, The Netherlands, (2009) BSc.Eng (5-year) in Materials Science and Engineering University of Ioannina, (2006) Teaching and supervision Current teaching responsibilities An Approachable Introduction to Programming (CE156) Team Project Challenge (CS) (CE291) Team Project Challenge (WBL) (CE299) Current supervision Janadhip Jacutprakart Degree subject: Computer Science Degree type: Doctor of Philosophy Publications Journal articles (15) Spath, N., Singh, T., Papanastasiou, G., Kershaw, L., Baker, A., Janisczek, R., Gulsin, G., Dweck, M., McCann, G., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Manganese-enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Dilated Cardiomyopathy and Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy.. European Heart Journal - Cardiovascular Imaging Chartsias, A., Papanastasiou, G., Wang, C., Semple, S., Newby, D., Dharmakumar, R. and Tsaftaris, S., Disentangle, align and fuse for multimodal and semi-supervised image segmentation.. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging Suchacki, KJ., Tavares, AAS., Mattiucci, D., Scheller, EL., Papanastasiou, G., Gray, C., Sinton, MC., Ramage, LE., McDougald, WA., Lovdel, A., Sulston, RJ., Thomas, BJ., Nicholson, BM., Drake, AJ., Alcaide-Corral, CJ., Said, D., Poloni, A., Cinti, S., Macpherson, GJ., Dweck, MR., Andrews, JPM., Williams, MC., Wallace, RJ., van Beek, EJR., MacDougald, OA., Morton, NM., Stimson, RH. and Cawthorn, WP., (2020). Bone marrow adipose tissue is a unique adipose subtype with distinct roles in glucose homeostasis. Nature Communications. 11 (1), 3097- Wang, C., Yang, G., Papanastasiou, G., Zhang, H., Rodrigues, JJPC. and de Albuquerque, VHC., (2020). Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems-based Cloud IoT Edge for Federated Heterogeneous Distillation.. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 1-1 Wang, C., Dong, S., Zhao, X., Papanastasiou, G., Zhang, H. and Yang, G., (2020). SaliencyGAN: Deep Learning Semisupervised Salient Object Detection in the Fog of IoT. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics. 16 (4), 2667-2676 Papanastasiou, G., Mark, R., Chengjia, W., Kerstin, H., Christophe, L., Rustam, A-SS., Joanna M., W., Edwin J.R., VB. and Gerard, T., (2020). Pharmacokinetic modelling for the simultaneous assessment of perfusion and 18F-flutemetamol uptake in cerebral amyloid angiopathy using a reduced PET-MR acquisition time: proof of concept.. NeuroImage. 225, 117482-117482 Wang, C., Yang, G., Papanastasiou, G., Tsaftaris, SA., Newby, DE., Gray, C., Macnaught, G. and MacGillivray, TJ., (2020). DiCyc: Deformation Invariant Cross-Domain Information Fusion for Medical Image Synthesis. Information Fusion. 67, 147-160 Kuhn, J., Papanastasiou, G., Tai, C-W., Moran, CM., Jansen, MA., Tavares, AAS., Lennen, RJ., Corral, CA., Wang, C., Thomson, AJW., Berry, CC. and Yiu, HHP., (2020). Tri-modal imaging of gold-dotted magnetic nanoparticles for magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography and intravascular ultrasound: an in vitro study. Nanomedicine. 15 (25), 2433-2445 Chartsias, A., Joyce, T., Papanastasiou, G., Semple, S., Williams, M., Newby, DE., Dharmakumar, R. and Tsaftaris, SA., (2019). Disentangled representation learning in cardiac image analysis. Medical Image Analysis. 58, 101535-101535 Papanastasiou, G., Williams, MC., Dweck, MR., Mirsadraee, S., Weir, N., Fletcher, A., Lucatelli, C., Patel, D., van Beek, EJR., Newby, DE. and Semple, SIK., (2018). Multimodality Quantitative Assessments of Myocardial Perfusion Using Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Magnetic Resonance and 15O-Labeled Water Positron Emission Tomography Imaging. IEEE Transactions on Radiation and Plasma Medical Sciences. 2 (3), 259-271 Spath, NB., Lilburn, DML., Gray, GA., Le Page, LM., Papanastasiou, G., Lennen, RJ., Janiczek, RL., Dweck, MR., Newby, DE., Yang, PC., Jansen, MA. and Semple, SI., (2018). Manganese-Enhanced T Mapping in the Myocardium of Normal and Infarcted Hearts. Contrast Media and Molecular Imaging. 2018, 1-13 Hindel, S., Papanastasiou, G., Wust, P., Maa, M., Shner, A. and Ldemann, L., (2018). Evaluation of pharmacokinetic models for perfusion imaging with dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in porcine skeletal muscle using low-molecular-weight contrast agents. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine. 79 (6), 3154-3162 Csincsik, L., MacGillivray, TJ., Flynn, E., Pellegrini, E., Papanastasiou, G., Barzegar-Befroei, N., Csutak, A., Bird, AC., Ritchie, CW., Peto, T. and Lengyel, I., (2018). Peripheral Retinal Imaging Biomarkers for Alzheimers Disease: A Pilot Study. Ophthalmic Research. 59 (4), 182-192 Papanastasiou, G., Williams, MC., Dweck, MR., Alam, S., Cooper, A., Mirsadraee, S., Newby, DE. and Semple, SI., (2016). Quantitative assessment of myocardial blood flow in coronary artery disease by cardiovascular magnetic resonance: comparison of Fermi and distributed parameter modeling against invasive methods. Journal of Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance. 18 (1) Papanastasiou, G., Williams, MC., Kershaw, LE., Dweck, MR., Alam, S., Mirsadraee, S., Connell, M., Gray, C., MacGillivray, T., Newby, DE. and Semple, SIK., (2015). Measurement of myocardial blood flow by cardiovascular magnetic resonance perfusion: comparison of distributed parameter and Fermi models with single and dual bolus. Journal of Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance. 17 (1) Show all Books (1) El-Baz, A. and Suri, JS., (2018). Cardiovascular Imaging and Image Analysis. CRC Press. 0429806213. 9780429806216 Conferences (23) Papanastasiou, G., Rodrigues, M., Wang, C., Heurling, K., Al-Shahi Salman, R. and Macnaught, G., Quantitative assessment of 18F-flutemetamol uptake in cerebral amyloid angiopathy using a reduced PET-MR acquisition time frame. Papanastasiou, G., Rodrigues, M., Wang, C., Heurling, K., Al-Shahi Salman, R. and Macnaught, G., Pharmacokinetic analysis of 18F-flutemetamol uptake in cerebral amyloid angiopathy using PET-MR imaging. Spath, N., Papanastasiou, G., Singh, T., Baker, A., Janiczek, R., McCann, G., Dweck, M., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Manganese-enhanced T1 mapping to quantify myocardial dysfunction in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. Chartsias, A., Joyce, T., Papanastasiou, G., Semple, S., Newby, D., Williams, MC., Dharmakumar, R. and Sotirios, T., Factorised spatial representation learning: application in semi-supervised myocardial segmentation Wang, C., MacGillivray, T., Macnaught, G., Papanastasiou, G. and Newby, D., Unsupervised cross-domain medical image synthesis by learning deformation-invariant mapping from unpaired data. Papanastasiou, G., Williams, MC., Alam, S., Dweck, M., Mirsadraee, S., Gray, C., Connell, M., MacGillivray, T., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Assessing the reliability of DP and Fermi estimates in single and dual bolus cardiac MR perfusion imaging. Papanastasiou, G., Williams, MC., Dweck, M., Mirsadraee, S., Fletcher, A., Lucatelli, C., Patel, D., van Beek, E., Newby, D. and Semple, S., A multimodality assessment of myocardial perfusion quantification using dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance and 15O-labelled water positron emission tomography imaging. Spath, N., Papanastasiou, G., Singh, T., Gulsin, G., McCann, G., Dweck, M., Baker, A., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Manganese-enhanced T1 mapping to quantify myocardial dysfunction in non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. Spath, N., Papanastasiou, G., Singh, T., Gulsin, G., McCann, G., Dweck, M., Baker, A., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Manganese-enhanced MRI in acute myocardial infarction. Papanastasiou, G., Rodrigues, M., Salman, R. and Macnaught, G., Quantitative analysis of 18F-flutemetamol uptake in cerebral amyloid angiopathy using hybrid PET-MR imaging. Spath, N., Papanastasiou, G., Singh, T., Baker, A., Janiczek, R., McCann, G., Dweck, M., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Manganese-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging to assess myocardial calcium handling to directly visualise myocardium viability. Chartsias, A., Joyce, T., Papanastasiou, G., Semple, S., Williams, M., Dharmakumar, R., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Doing more with less: semi-supervised cardiac segmentation with a fraction of labeled images. Hindel, S., Papanastasiou, G., Wust, P., Maa, M., Shner, A. and Ldemann, L., Evaluation of Pharmacokinetic Models for Perfusion Imaging with Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Porcine Skeletal Muscle Using Low-Molecular-Weight Contrast Agents. Csincsik, L., Flynn, E., Pellegrini, E., Papanastasiou, G., MacGillivray, T., Ritchie, C., Peto, T. and Lengyel, I., Assessing retinal vascular biomarkers for Alzheimers disease using ultra-widefield imaging (UWFI). Csincsik, L., Flynn, E., Pellegrini, E., Papanastasiou, G., MacGillivray, T., Ritchie, C., Peto, T. and Lengyel, I., Retinal vascular parameter assessment in Alzheimers disease using ultra-widefield imaging. Figueroa, J., Gray, C., Papanastasiou, G., Gonzalez-Castro, V., Polydorides, N., Andrew, E. and Vinnicombe, S., Towards the development of non-invasive measures of breast cancer risk: image analysis of digital breast tomosynthesis mammograms and tissue lobule content. Papanastasiou, G., Williams, M., Dweck, M., Alam, S., Cooper, A., Mirsadraee, S., Newby, D. and Semple, S., Diagnostic performance of myocardial blood flow quantification in coronary artery disease by magnetic resonance. Jiang, H., Chartsias, A., Papanastasiou, G., Zhang, X., Dweck, M., Semple, S., Newby, D., Dharmakumar, R. and Tsaftaris, S., (2020). Semi-supervised Pathology Segmentation with Disentangled Representations. Chartsias, A., Papanastasiou, G., Wang, C., Stirrat, C., Semple, S., Newby, D., Dharmakumar, R. and Tsaftaris, S., (2020). Multimodal cardiac segmentation using disentangled representation learning. Wang, C., Papanastasiou, G., Tsaftaris, SA., Yang, G., Gray, C., Newby, D., Macnaught, G. and MacGillivray, T., (2019). Improved Deformation Invariant Cross-domain Medical Image Synthesis. Papanastasiou, G., Gonzalez-Castro, V., Gray, C., Forsythe, R., Sourgia-Koutraki, Y., Mitchard, N., Newby, D. and Semple, S., (2017). Multidimensional assessments of abdominal aortic aneurysms by magnetic resonance against ultrasound diameter measurements. Papanastasiou, G., Williams, M., Dweck, M., Mirsadraee, S., Weir, N., Alam, S., Stirrat, C., Newby, D. and Semple, S., (2014). Comparison of distributed parameter and Fermi modeling of cardiac MR perfusion with CT perfusion in coronary artery disease versus invasive coronary angiography. Papanastasiou, G., Kershaw, L., Williams, M., Dweck, M., Alam, S., Mirsadraee, S., Gray, C., MacGillivray, T., Newby, D. and Semple, S., (2013). A multimodality cross-validation study of cardiac perfusion using MR and CT. Show all Thesis dissertation (1) Papanastasiou, G., (2016). Quantification of cardiac magnetic resonance imaging perfusion in the clinical setting at 3T Contact g.papanastasiou@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus Academic support hours: My Academic Support Hours will be 09:00-10:00 am on Friday via zoom. The zoom link for this is available from my profile on my CE156/CE157 course MOODLE pages. Please wait in the waiting room until I can admit you. WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
