Profile for Farhana Liza at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Dr Farhana Liza People Dr Farhana Liza Senior Research Officer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email farhana.ferdousi.liza@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Publications Contact Publications Contact Publications Journal articles (1) Ahmed, MS. and Liza, FF., (2013). Efficiency of commercial banks in Bangladesh-a Data Envelopment Analysis. European Journal of Economics, Finance and Administrative Sciences (56), 130-152 Conferences (8) Liza, FF. and Grzes, M., A Spectral Method that Worked Well in the SPiCe'16 Competition. Shoemark, P., Liza, FF., Nguyen, D., Hale, S. and McGillivray, B., (2020). Room to Glo: A Systematic Comparison of Semantic Change Detection Approaches with Word Embeddings Liza, FF. and Grzes, M., (2019). Relating RNN Layers with the Spectral WFA Ranks in Sequence Modelling Liza, FF. and Grzes, M., (2018). Improving language modelling with noise contrastive estimation Liza, FF. and Grze, M., (2016). Estimating the Accuracy of Spectral Learning for HMMs Liza, FF. and Grzes, M., (2016). An Improved Crowdsourcing Based Evaluation Technique for Word Embedding Methods Liza, FF. and Yao, W., (2009). Implementation Architecture of Proxy Mobile IPv6 Protocol for NS2 Simulator Software Dilruba, RA., Chowdhury, N., Liza, FF. and Karmakar, CK., (2006). Data Pattern Recognition using Neural Network with Back-Propagation Training Show all Contact farhana.ferdousi.liza@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
