Profile for Amir Jahangiri at the University of Essex We are Essex Study Subject areas Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study abroad Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Life Our campuses Accommodation Faith Student facilities Student services Essex Sport Chat with our students New students Welcome to Essex Before you arrive Information for families International students Research Our research Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Areas of study Find a supervisor or explore our research Research blog Business Expertise for business Knowledge Gateway Facilities Recruit our students and graduates Training, Apprenticeships and CPD Find a course COVID-19 About us Open Days, Applicant Days and Campus Tours Departments Centres and Institutes News Events Blog Alumni Philanthropy Schools and colleges Sustainability Global Essex Contact us Jobs Students Staff Public Information Directory I'm looking for... Courses Research People Something else Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory Courses Select Level Undergraduate Postgraduate Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Prefer to see our subject areas? Browse courses by subject Research Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for funded postgraduate opportunities? View doctoral training partnerships Browse postgraduate research opportunities People Unable to find any suggestions for your query... We are different and we are the same. #WeAreEssex Read our stories Something else Unable to find any suggestions for your query... Looking for student or staff information? Student Directory Staff Directory This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are consenting to their use. Please visit our cookie policy to find out which cookies we use and why. View cookie policy. People Amir Jahangiri People Amir Jahangiri Postgraduate Research Student School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering Senior Research Officer School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (CSEE) Email ajahan@essex.ac.uk Location Colchester Campus Publications Contact Publications Contact Publications Journal articles (2) Jahangiri, A. and Sepulveda, F., (2019). Correction to: The Relative Contribution of High-Gamma Linguistic Processing Stages of Word Production, and Motor Imagery of Articulation in Class Separability of Covert Speech Tasks in EEG Data. Journal of Medical Systems. 43 (8), 237-237:1 Jahangiri, A. and Sepulveda, F., (2019). The Relative Contribution of High-Gamma Linguistic Processing Stages of Word Production, and Motor Imagery of Articulation in Class Separability of Covert Speech Tasks in EEG Data. Journal of Medical Systems. 43 (2), 20-20:1 Conferences (2) Jahangiri, A., Chau, JM., Achanccaray, DR. and Sepulveda, F., (2018). Covert Speech vs. Motor Imagery: a comparative study of class separability in identical environments Jahangiri, A. and Sepulveda, FA., (2017). The contribution of different frequency bands in class separability of covert speech tasks for BCIs Contact ajahan@essex.ac.uk Location: Colchester Campus WE ARE ESSEX ARE YOU? Get a prospectus Get to know Essex STUDY Browse our courses by subject area Undergraduate study Postgraduate study Short courses and CPD International students Study online Apprenticeships Summer Schools Find a course LIFE Essex living Essex Sport Colchester Campus Southend Campus Loughton Campus Student facilities Student services RESEARCH Research excellence Research showcase Media requests Research Excellence Framework (REF) Research institutes and centres EXPLORE About us Departments Contact us How to pay your fees Jobs A-Z Students Alumni Staff Business CONTACT US Contact General - enquiries@essex.ac.uk Undergraduate - admit@essex.ac.uk Postgraduate - pgadmit@essex.ac.uk +44 (0) 1206 873333 University of Essex Wivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQ Disclaimer Accessibility Privacy and cookie policy Our transparency return Modern slavery and human trafficking CONNECT WITH US 2020 University of Essex. All rights reserved
