Christopher Chidsey | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Christopher Chidsey Christopher ChidseyAssociate Professor of Chemistry, EmeritusInorganic ChemistryPhysical ChemistryMaterials ChemistryCatalysisThe Chidsey LabAboutProfessor Chidseys research interests lie in electrochemistry and electrocatalysis, and in building the chemical base for molecular electronics. He has investigated the role of chemical bonding in promoting long-distance electron tunneling across interfaces and contributed to the development of silicon and germanium surface chemistry, including the self-assembly of complex molecular monolayers on silicon. Today his lab develops molecular systems, analytical tools and theoretical approaches to understand electron transfer between electrodes and among redox species, with applications in sustainable battery technology, fuel chemistry, and biochemical analysis. Born in 1957, Christopher Chidsey studied chemistry at Dartmouth College (A.B. 1978) and physical chemistry at Stanford University (Ph.D. 1983). After postdoctoral work in electrochemistry with Royce Murray at the University of North Carolina, he joined the technical staff at AT&T Bell Laboratories, where he probed long-distance electron transfer across interfaces and contributed to developments in scanning tunneling microscopy, nonlinear optical materials and optical materials processing. He joined the Stanford Department of Chemistry as Associate Professor in 1992, and in 2009 was also appointed Senior Fellow at the Precourt Institute for Energy. He has received the Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award and Bing and Hertz Foundation fellowships, and was elected a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.The Chidsey Lab at Stanford uses surface chemistry and electrochemistry to control and investigate a number of important interfacial phenomena.Water OxidationThe group has shown that a 2 nm film of TiO2, created by atomic layer deposition, protects otherwise unstable semiconductor surfaces to achieve efficient and stable photoelectrolysis of water to produce hydrogen and oxygen fuels. Current work involves tailoring alloyed RuO2/TiO2 catalyst layers to optimize the turnover frequency for oxygen evolution, with the aim of achieving comparable electrocatalytic activity at a fraction of prior noble metal usage.Electrocatalysis for Fuel Cells and CO2 ReductionA major effort involves covalent attachment of electrocatalysts to carbon electrodes and other oxidation-resistant conductive substrates for use in ambient-temperature fuel cells and related energy- and chemical-conversion systems. A new covalent chemistry on graphitic carbon surfaces, based on the click reaction of azides and alkynes, has been developed. Another effort involves the formation of electroactive self-assembled thiol monolayers on gold surfaces an area Professor Chidsey pioneered beginning 15 years ago.Another project employs transfer hydrogenation catalyts as alcohol oxidation electocatalysts for fuel cells. Lab members study the thermodynamics and kinetics of metal hydride formation from a metal precatalyst and an alcohol fuel, and examine the electro-oxidation of the formed metal hydrides. Running this cycle in the microscopic reverse direction leads to a strategy for CO2 reduction. The aim is to extend this knowledge from working examples to catalyst design for such transformations.Battery TechnologyMany of the electrolyte components used in lithium-ion batteries are not electrochemically stable at the low potentials reached by the anode when the battery charges. However, with the right electrolyte mixture, the decomposition products on the first charge create a solid electrolyte interphase that acts as a lithium-ion conductive, but otherwise passivating layer, slowing electrolyte degradation. Chidsey group members study the formation and useful contributions of this layer. AppointmentsEmeritus (Active) Professor, ChemistrySenior Fellow, Precourt Institute for EnergyOther AppointmentsAssociate Professor by Courtesy, Department of Chemical Engineering Stanford University (2008 - 2011)Associate Professor, Department of Photon Science SLAC, Stanford University (1997 - 2010)Member of Technical Staff, AT&T Bell Laboratories (1984 - 1992)Honors & AwardsFellow, National Science Foundation (1978-1981)Fellow, Fanny and John Hertz Foundation (1982-1983)Teacher-Scholar, Camille and Henry Dreyfus (1993)Bing Fellow, Stanford University (1995)Fellow, AAAS (2007)Professional EducationPostdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Electrochemistsry (1983)Ph.D., Stanford University, Physical Chemistry (1983)A.B., Dartmouth College, Chemistry (1978) Featured Publications Hendricks, O. L., Tang-Kong, R., Babadi, A. S., McIntyre, P. C., & Chidsey, C. E. D. (2019). Atomic Layer Deposited TiO2-IrOx Alloys Enable Corrosion Resistant Water Oxidation on Silicon at High Photovoltage. CHEMISTRY OF MATERIALS, 31(1), 90100. Ramakrishnan, S., Moretti, R. A., & Chidsey, C. E. D. (2019). Mapping free energy regimes in electrocatalytic reductions to screen transition metal-based catalysts. CHEMICAL SCIENCE, 10(32), 764958. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:chidsey@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 725-1751Full Stanford Profile:Christopher ChidseyAdmin ContactNancy McCarthyEmail:nancylm@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 736-8120 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
