Physical Chemistry | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research AreasOrganic Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry Physical Chemistry Theoretical Chemistry Chemistry-Biology Interface Materials Chemistry Catalysis Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Physical Chemistry Richard Zare, the Marguerite Blake Wilbur Professor in Natural Science, and postdoctoral researcher Jianyang Zhang peer into the recesses of the vacuum chamber where the teams experiments discovered that near misses of hydrogen atoms and deuterium molecules produce an unexpected transfer of energy. Linda A. Cicero, Stanford News Service Inventing techniques to measure and understand chemical processes down to femtosecond time resolutions, single-molecule lengths, and picomolar concentrations Chemistry as a physical science is unique in both interrogating and creating molecular structures. It illuminates and controls molecular systems through the design and development of tools to study atomic and molecular behavior. Through its focus on the energetics of chemical structure and transformation, it also provides the molecular foundation for all energy conversion technologies and the economic and societal benefits they provide. Leveraging a rich community of institutes, centers and training programs such as the Global Climate and Energy Project and Precourt Institute for Energy, Stanford scientists are developing new strategies to understand and manipulate atomic and molecular behavior, the interaction of light with matter, and the dynamics and energetics of bond rearrangements that are critical to new energy technologies. Exploring the properties of matter at size scales ranging from single molecules to macroscopic materials, and at time scales from picoseconds to hours, requires new experimental and theoretical approaches and sophisticated electronic devices. Our scientists are driving these advances with emerging tools and technologies that can quantify measurements of atomic and molecular behavior with extraordinary sensitivity and precision. Precision Measurement Stanford pioneers in the use of synchrotron x-ray radiation use the next-generation light source, the free electron laser, to study chemical reactivity with stop-action timing. Using ultrafast optical methods, Stanford scientists capture the molecular motions of catalytic reactions over an unprecedented range of time scales, from tens of femtoseconds to ten microseconds. Other faculty have devised tools and techniques to examine molecules in extremely tiny volumes, characteristic of volumes inside cells and subcellular compartments. Pioneering work in the laser spectroscopy and microscopy of single molecules probes biological processes one molecule at a time, leveraging the development of super-resolved fluorescence microscopy surpassing the optical diffraction limit recognized in the 2014 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, and informing ongoing development of 2D and 3D super-resolution imaging. Energy Conversion Stanford photobiophysical studies examine light-driven long-distance electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers, one of the fastest known chemical reactions, and probes alternate pathways of electron transfer. Parallel studies develop molecular systems, analytical tools and theoretical approaches to understand electron transfer between electrodes and among redox species, with applications in sustainable battery technology and fuel chemistry. Molecular Dynamics and Physical Properties The use of lasers to study chemical reactions at the molecular level, pioneered at Stanford, led to seminal contributions to our understanding of molecular collision processes. New methods that predict and explain how atoms move in molecules are used both to design new molecules and to understand the behavior of those that already exist, including molecular responses to light and external force. High-quality [SW1]nanotubes from a Stanford-developed synthesis are widely used to investigate the electrical, mechanical, optical, electro-mechanical and thermal properties of quasi-one-dimensional systems. Structure and Reactivity Spectroscopy and theory combine to probe the electronic and geometric structures of transition metal sites, and their relationship to reactivity and function. Groundbreaking work from the first lab to clone myoglobin has demonstrated electrostatic contributions to enzyme activity, opening a new perspective on catalysis. Biomedicine Studies integrating chemistry, biology, and physics investigate the assembly and function of macromolecular complexes and whole-cell factories, with particular focus on bacterial cell walls and biofilms major targets of antibiotics and anti-infectives. New insights into enzymology are guiding studies of antibiotics biosynthesis in bacteria, and the role of the enzyme transglutaminase 2 in celiac disease Novel optical methods and applications of nanopillars as electric and optical sensors, and structural probes promise more-detailed views into neuronal signal propagation. Advanced Computing Department faculty are developing and testing heretofore unknown chemical reactions through virtual reality based molecular modeling kit that fully understands quantum dynamics. Seeking highly efficient classical simulation of problems at the interface of quantum and statistical mechanics, Stanford researchers are exploring multiple time-scale molecular dynamics approaches and targeted thermostat schemes. Advancing biophysical chemistry, the worlds largest supercluster, the Folding@home Distribtued Computing project enables simulations in all-atom detail and experimentally relevant timescales (milliseconds to seconds), which have produced specific predictions of the physical chemical nature of protein aggregation involved in Alzheimers and Huntingtons diseases. Associated Faculty Hans Andersen David Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor in Chemistry, Emeritus Steven Boxer Camille Dreyfus Professor of Chemistry John Brauman J.G. Jackson and C.J. Wood Professor of Chemistry, Emeritus Lynette Cegelski Associate Professor of Chemistry and, by courtesy, of Chemical Engineering Christopher Chidsey Associate Professor of Chemistry, Emeritus Bianxiao Cui Professor of Chemistry Hongjie Dai The J.G. Jackson and C.J. Wood Professor in Chemistry Michael Fayer David Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor in Chemistry Keith Hodgson David Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Photon Science at SLAC Wray Huestis Professor of Chemistry, Emerita Chaitan Khosla Wells H. Rauser and Harold M. Petiprin Professor in the School of Engineering and Professor of Chemistry and, by courtesy, of Biochemistry Fang Liu Thomas Markland Associate Professor of Chemistry Todd Martinez David Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor in Chemistry and Professor of Photon Science W. E. Moerner Harry S. Mosher Professor and Professor, by courtesy, of Applied Physics Robert Pecora Professor of Chemistry, Emeritus Edward I. Solomon Monroe E. Spaght Professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences and Professor of Photon Science Richard Zare Marguerite Blake Wilbur Professor in Natural Science and Professor, by courtesy, of Physics Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
