Steven Boxer | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Steven Boxer Steven BoxerCamille Dreyfus Professor of ChemistryPhysical ChemistryChemistry-Biology InterfaceCatalysisBiophysical studies of protein structure and functionLab WebsiteAboutMy laboratory investigates the structure and function of biological systems with a strong physical perspective. We invent experimental methods and develop theory as needed. We are pursuing several interconnected themes:Excited State Dynamics in GFP & Split GFP Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) is widely used as a probe to localize proteins in cells. Our lab was the first to demonstrate that the GFP chromophore exists in two protonation states, interconvertible by ultrafast excited state proton transfer. We and others have since developed this idea to generate novel GFP variants with diverse colors and sensitivities. Current work focuses on split GFP in which structural elements such as entire beta strands are replaced with synthetic ones. We have discovered that some split GFPs can be photodissociated, generating a peptide and a truncated protein; alternatively, in some conditions, light can be used to associate peptides with truncated proteins. Thus these split GFPs are optogenetic elements for manipulations inside cells, and we seek to understand how they work.Electrostatics and Dynamics in ProteinsWe study electrostatics in proteins and how electric fields affect function. Early test systems used mutants of myoglobin, which was first cloned and expressed in our lab. This led to probes whose sensitivity to electric fields can be calibrated by Stark spectroscopy spectroscopy in electric fields which we have developed into a broadly applicable method. Vibrational Stark experiments exploit molecular vibrations as local and directional probes to map electrostatic fields in proteins. Current work applies nitrile probes introduced into proteins on inhibitors. These can be used to probe electrostatics and hydration at the active sites of important drug targets. Recent work focuses on carbonyl probes to study enzymatic reactions. By combining the vibrational Stark effect, vibrational solvatochromism and MD simulations, we have developed a general method to measure the absolute field sensed by the carbonyl probe in proteins. This has been used to quantify the electrostatic contribution to the catalytic rate in several enzymes.Model MembranesOur group has developed supported lipid bilayers as mimics for cell surfaces and tools in biotechnology. A broad vision is to engineer interfaces between hard surfaces and soft materials, ultimately leading to sophisticated biocompatible interfaces that can be used to control, interrogate or organize complex living systems. We have developed methods to partition and manipulate elements of these unique self-assembled systems; these methods are now used in many laboratories.Recent work addresses four interrelated areas: 1) characterization of membrane organization, domains and protein associations using a novel type of imaging mass spectrometry; 2) models for membrane fusion and investigations into the fusion of enveloped viruses to their target membrane; 3) development of tethered lipid bilayers as a platform to study membrane domains, junction topology, vesicle fusion and enveloped virus fusion; and 4) a membrane interferometer where a free-standing lipid bilayer is held within a few hundred nm of an atomically flat mirror, with the ultimate goal of measuring protein conformational changes optically with sub-nm precision in parallel with electrical measurements, e.g. in ion channels.Energy and Electron Transfer in PhotosynthesisLight-driven long-distance electron transfer in photosynthetic reaction centers is one of the fastest known chemical reactions. We study this by femtosecond fluorescence and transient absorption spectroscopy, manipulation in electric fields, site-specific and global mutagenesis and some novel types of Stark spectroscopy. Current work probes alternate pathways of electron transfer in novel bacterial reaction centers that lack normal electron acceptors, and introduces non-canonical amino acids to perturb and probe pathways. AppointmentsProfessor, ChemistryMember, Bio-XFaculty Fellow, Stanford ChEM-HMember, Wu Tsai Neurosciences InstituteHonors & AwardsMurray Goodman Memorial Prize, American Chemical Society (2014)E. Bright Wilson Award in Spectroscopy, American Chemical Society (2013)Elected Fellow, Royal Society of Chemistry (2009)Elected Member, National Academy of Sciences (2008)Earle K. Plyler Prize for Molecular Spectroscopy, American Physical Society (2008)Elected Fellow, Biophysical Society (2007)Elected Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1997)Elected Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (1997)Arthur Cope Scholar Award, American Chemical Society (1995)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsScientific Advisory Board Member, Quantapore (2015 - Present)Scientific Advisory Board Member, Apton Biosystems (2014 - Present)Scientific Advisory Committee Member, Ctr for Laser and Computational Biophysics, State Key Lab Precision Spectroscopy, E China Normal U. (2013 - 2015)Consultant, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology (2005 - 2008)Scientific Advisory Board Member, Synamem Corporation (2002 - Present)Professional EducationPhD, University of Chicago, Physical and Physical-Organic Chemistry (1976)BS with Honors, Tufts University, Chemistry (1969) Featured Publications Levinson, N. M., & Boxer, S. G. (2014). A conserved water-mediated hydrogen bond network defines bosutinib's kinase selectivity. Nature Chemical Biology, 10(2), 12732. Wu, Y., & Boxer, S. G. (2016). A Critical Test of the Electrostatic Contribution to Catalysis with Noncanonical Amino Acids in Ketosteroid Isomerase. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 138(36), 1189095. Wu, Y., Fried, S. D., & Boxer, S. G. (2020). A Preorganized Electric Field Leads to Minimal Geometrical Reorientation in the Catalytic Reaction of Ketosteroid Isomerase. Journal of the American Chemical Society. Lin, C.-Y. Y., Romei, M. G., Oltrogge, L. M., Mathews, I. I., & Boxer, S. G. (2019). A unified model for photophysical and electro-optical properties of Green Fluorescent Proteins. Journal of the American Chemical Society. Moss, F. R., & Boxer, S. G. (2016). Atomic Recombination in Dynamic Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry Probes Distance in Lipid Assemblies: A Nanometer Chemical Ruler. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 138(51), 1673744. Kozuch, J., Schneider, S. H., & Boxer, S. G. (2020). Biosynthetic Incorporation of Site-Specific Isotopes in -Lactam Antibiotics Enables Biophysical Studies. ACS Chemical Biology. Fried, S. D., Wang, L.-P., Boxer, S. G., Ren, P., & Pande, V. S. (2013). Calculations of the electric fields in liquid solutions. Journal of Physical Chemistry. B, 117(50), 1623648. Hughes, L. D., Rawle, R. J., & Boxer, S. G. (2014). Choose your label wisely: water-soluble fluorophores often interact with lipid bilayers. PloS One, 9(2). Lozano, M. M., Liu, Z., Sunnick, E., Janshoff, A., Kumar, K., & Boxer, S. G. (2013). Colocalization of the Ganglioside G(M1) and Cholesterol Detected by Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 135(15), 562030. Rawle, R. J., Boxer, S. G., & Kasson, P. M. (2016). Disentangling Viral Membrane Fusion from Receptor Binding Using Synthetic DNA-Lipid Conjugates. Biophysical Journal, 111(1), 12331. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:sboxer@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-4482Full Stanford Profile:Steven BoxerAdmin ContactDebra FrankEmail:dfrank@stanford.eduPhone:650-725-0261 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
