Alumni | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs AlumniAlumni Update Form In Memoriam Alumni Stanford graduates in the Department of Chemistry represent a long history of excellence in science, teaching and research. Graduates go on to become leaders and pioneers in a wide range of industries. Our alumni are entrepreneurs, executives, consultants, journalists, physicians and faculty members at leading institutions working on novel and innovative research. They are research scientists influential in the development of science policy and creating new pathways in the field of chemistry. Although a chemist by training, their transferrable skill set prepares them for a wide spectrum of roles and career paths in industry, medicine and academia. Stay connected We want to hear from you! Please send us a class note by completing the Alumni Update Form and let us know how you are doing. If you find yourself on The Farm, let us take you on a tour of the department, connect you with our students and bring you up to speed on the latest research coming out of Stanford Chemistry. All alumni are invited to attend our public lectures and seminars which are scheduled throughout the week on-campus. Please continue to check our events page for a current listing of upcoming events and programs and subscribe to our weekly newsletter. Follow us on Stanford Chemistry Facebook Stanford Chemistry LinkedIn Stanford Chemistry Twitter Stanford Chemistry YouTube As the department continues to grow and expand into new areas of research, we are looking to engage our alumni in various capacities. Please click on the alumni engagement page for more details. Questions or suggestions for the department? Please contact the Office of External Relations Graham Dick Mary Anne Manumpil Colin McKinlay Srinivasan Ramakrishnan Cohort Year: 2018 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
