Barry Trost | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Barry Trost Barry TrostJob and Gertrud Tamaki Professor in the School of Humanities and SciencesOrganic ChemistryCatalysisThe Trost Research GroupAboutBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Barry Trost began his university training at the University of Pennsylvania (BA, 1962) and completed his Ph.D. in Chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1965). He moved directly to the University of Wisconsin, where he was promoted to Professor of Chemistry and subsequently Vilas Research Professor. He joined the faculty at Stanford as Professor of Chemistry in 1987 and became Tamaki Professor of Humanities and Sciences in 1990. In addition to serving multiple visiting professorships, Professor Trost was presented with a Docteur honoris causa of the Universit Claude-Bernard (Lyon I), France, and in 1997 a Doctor Scientiarum Honoris Causa of the Technion, Haifa, Israel. In recognition of his innovations and scholarship in the field of organic synthesis, Professor Trost has received the ACS Award in Pure Chemistry, ACS Award for Creative Work in Synthetic Organic Chemistry, Arthur C. Cope Scholar Award, and the Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award, among many others. Professor Trost has been elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Chemical Society, and American Association for the Advancement of Science, and a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and served as Chairman of the NIH Medicinal Chemistry Study Section. He has held over 125 special university lectureships and presented over 270 Plenary Lectures at national and international meetings. He has published two books and over 950 scientific articles. He edited a major compendium entitled Comprehensive Organic Synthesis consisting of nine volumes and serves on the editorial board for Science of Synthesis and Reaxys.The Trost Groups research program revolves around the theme of synthesis, including target molecules with potential applications as novel catalysts, as well as antibiotic and antitumor therapies. The work comprises two major activities: 1) developing the tools, i.e., the reactions and reagents, and 2) creating the proper network of reactions to make complex targets readily available from simple starting materials.Efforts to develop "chemists' enzymes" non-peptidic transition metal based catalysts that can perform chemo-, regio-, diastereo-, and especially enantioselective reactions focus close attention to the question of atom economy to minimize waste, energy, and consumption of raw materials. Synthetic efficiency raises the question of metal catalyzed cycloadditions to rings other than six-membered. A general strategy is evolving for a "Diels-Alder" equivalent for formation of five, seven, nine, etc. membered carbo- and heterocyclic rings.An exciting new direction derives from the molecular gymnastics acetylenes undergo in the presence of transition metals. Additional specific goals include cycloisomerization to virtually all types of ring sizes and systems with particularly versatile juxtaposition of functionality. Palladium and ruthenium catalysts represent a major part of the lab's efforts, in order to invent new synthetic processes together with new opportunities for selectivity complementary to that obtained using other metal complexes. Main group chemistry, especially involving silicon, zinc, and sulfur, also offers many opportunities for new reaction design. Rational design of novel catalysts for asymmetric additions to carbonyl and imine groups are an exciting thrust.From these new synthetic tools evolve new synthetic strategies towards complex natural products. Targets include -lactam antibiotics, ionophores, steroids and related compounds (e.g., Vitamin D metabolites), alkaloids, nucleosides, carbohydrates, and macrolide, terpenoid, and tetracyclic antitumor and antibiotic agents. AppointmentsProfessor, ChemistryHonors & AwardsLinus Pauling Medal Award, Puget Sound, Oregon, and Portland Sections of the American Chemical Society (2015)Tetrahedron Prize, Tetrahedron Publications, Elsevier (2014)August-Wilhelm-von-Hofmann Denkmuenze, German Chemical Society (2014)Ryoji Noyori Prize, Society of Synthetic Organic Chemistry, Japan (2013)Arthur C. Cope Award, American Chemical Society (2004)Herbert C. Brown Award for Creative Research in Synthetic Methods, American Chemical Society (1999)Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award, US EPA Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention (1998)Roger Adams Award, American Chemical Society (1995)Award for Creative Work in Synthetic Organic Chemistry, American Chemical Society (1981)Award in Pure Chemistry, American Chemical Society (1977)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsEditorial Advisory Board Member, Reaxys (CrossFire Beilstein) Database (2007 - Present)Member, CAL/EPA Green Chemistry Scientific Advisory Panel (2007 - 2007)Member, NRC Committee on the Review of Basic Energy Sciences Catalysis Program (2007 - 2007)Editorial Board Member, Chemistry - An Asian Journal (2006 - Present)Editorial Advisory Board Member, Beilstein Journal of Organic Chemistry (2005 - Present)Editorial oard Member, Central European Journal of Chemistry (2003 - Present)Editorial Board Member, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (2003 - 2006)Editorial Advisory Board, Journal of Organic Chemistry (2002 - 2006)Organizing Committee, Mesilla Conference (2002 - 2002)Editorial Advisory Board Member, Accounts of Chemical Research (2001 - 2003)Professional EducationPhD, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Chemistry (1965)BA with honors, University of Pennsylvania, Chemistry (1962) Featured Publications Trost, B. M., Stivala, C. E., Hull, K. L., Huang, A., & Fandrick, D. R. (2014). A Concise Synthesis of (-)-Lasonolide A. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 136(1), 8891. Trost, B. M., & Ryan, M. C. (2016). A Ruthenium/Phosphoramidite-Catalyzed Asymmetric Interrupted Metallo-ene Reaction. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 138(9), 298184. Trost, B. M. (1996). Designing a receptor for molecular recognition in a catalytic synthetic reaction: Allylic Alkylation. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 29(8), 355364. Trost, B. M., Silverman, S. M., & Stambuli, J. P. (2011). Development of an Asymmetric Trimethylenemethane Cycloaddition Reaction: Application in the Enantioselective Synthesis of Highly Substituted Carbocycles. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 133(48), 1948397. Trost, B. M., & Lam, T. M. (2012). Development of Diamidophosphite Ligands and Their Application to the Palladlium-Catalyzed Vinyl-Substituted Trimethylenemethane Asymmetric [3+2] Cycloaddition. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 134(28), 1131921. Trost, B. M. (1974). NEW ALKYLATION METHODS. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 7(3), 8592. Trost, B. M. (1980). NEW RULES OF SELECTIVITY - ALLYLIC ALKYLATIONS CATALYZED BY PALLADIUM. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 13(11), 385393. Trost, B. M. (2002). On inventing reactions for atom economy. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 35(9), 695705. Trost, B. M., & Bartlett, M. J. (2015). ProPhenol-Catalyzed Asymmetric Additions by Spontaneously Assembled Dinuclear Main Group Metal Complexes. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 48(3), 688701. Trost, B. M., Harrington, P. E., Chisholm, J. D., & Wrobleski, S. T. (2005). Total synthesis of (+)-amphidinolide A. Structure elucidation and completion of the synthesis. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 127(39), 13598610. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:bmtrost@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-3385Full Stanford Profile:Barry TrostAdmin ContactSusan HaskinsEmail:shaskins@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-0640 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
