Michael Fayer | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Michael Fayer Michael FayerDavid Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor in ChemistryPhysical ChemistryMaterials ChemistryLab WebsiteAboutMy research group studies complex molecular systems by using ultrafast multi-dimensional infrared and non-linear UV/Vis methods. A basic theme is to understand the role of mesoscopic structure on the properties of molecular systems. Many systems have structure on length scales large compare to molecules but small compared to macroscopic dimensions. The mesoscopic structures occur on distance scales of a few nanometers to a few tens of nanometers. The properties of systems, such as water in nanoscopic environments, room temperature ionic liquids, functionalized surfaces, liquid crystals, metal organic frameworks, water and other liquids in nanoporous silica, polyelectrolyte fuel cell membranes, vesicles, and micelles depend on molecular level dynamics and intermolecular interactions. Our ultrafast measurements provide direct observables for understanding the relationships among dynamics, structure, and intermolecular interactions.Bulk properties are frequently a very poor guide to understanding the molecular level details that determine the nature of a chemical process and its dynamics. Because molecules are small, molecular motions are inherently very fast. Recent advances in methodology developed in our labs make it possible for us to observe important processes as they occur. These measurements act like stop-action photography. To focus on a particular aspect of a time evolving system, we employ sequences of ultrashort pulses of light as the basis for non-linear methods such as ultrafast infrared two dimensional vibrational echoes, optical Kerr effect methods, and ultrafast IR transient absorption experiments.We are using ultrafast 2D IR vibrational echo spectroscopy and other multi-dimensional IR methods, which we have pioneered, to study dynamics of molecular complexes, water confined on nm lengths scales with a variety of topographies, molecules bound to surfaces, ionic liquids, and materials such as metal organic frameworks and porous silica. We can probe the dynamic structures these systems. The methods are somewhat akin to multidimensional NMR, but they probe molecular structural evolution in real time on the relevant fast time scales, eight to ten orders of magnitude faster than NMR. We are obtaining direct information on how nanoscopic confinement of water changes its properties, a topic of great importance in chemistry, biology, geology, and materials. For the first time, we are observing the motions of molecular bound to surfaces. In biological membranes, we are using the vibrational echo methods to study dynamics and the relationship among dynamics, structure, and function. We are also developing and applying theory to these problems frequently in collaboration with top theoreticians.We are studying dynamics in complex liquids, in particular room temperature ionic liquids, liquid crystals, supercooled liquids, as well as in influence of small quantities of water on liquid dynamics. Using ultrafast optical heterodyne detected optical Kerr effect methods, we can follow processes from tens of femtoseconds to ten microseconds. Our ability to look over such a wide range of time scales is unprecedented. The change in molecular dynamics when a system undergoes a phase change is of fundamental and practical importance. We are developing detailed theory as the companion to the experiments.We are studying photo-induced proton transfer in nanoscopic water environments such as polyelectrolyte fuel cell membranes, using ultrafast UV/Vis fluorescence and multidimensional IR measurements to understand the proton transfer and other processes and how they are influenced by nanoscopic confinement. We want to understand the role of the solvent and the systems topology on proton transfer dynamics. AppointmentsProfessor, ChemistryMember, Bio-XOther AppointmentsProfessor of Chemistry, Stanford University (1984 - 2000)Associate Professor of Chemistry, Stanford University (1980 - 1984)Assistant Professor of Chemistry, Stanford University (1974 - 1980)Professor of Physics, University of Grenoble (1982 - 1982)Honors & AwardsAhmed Zewail Award in Ultrafast Science and Technology, American Chemical Society (2014)Arthur L. Schawlow Prize in Laser Science, American Physical Society (2012)Ellis R. Lippincott Award, Optical Society of America (2009)Fellow, Optical Society of America (2009)Fellow, Royal Society of Chemistry (2008)E. Bright Wilson Award for Spectroscopy, American Chemical Society (2007)Member, National Academy of Sciences (2007)Earl K. Plyler Prize for Molecular Spectroscopy, American Physical Society (2000)Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1999)Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching, Stanford University (1986)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsMember, Editorial Board, Journal of Chemical Physics (1987 - 1990)Member, Advisory Board, Journal of Physical Chemistry (1986 - 1989)Associate Editor, Journal of Luminescence (1988 - Present)Advisory Editor, Chemical Physics (1985 - Present)Advisory Editor, Chemical Physics Letters (1984 - 2006)Chairman, Awards Committee, Earl K. Plyler Prize for Molecular Spectroscopy (2006 - 2006)Chairman, 7th International Conference on Unconventional Photoactive Systems, Stanford University (1995 - 1995)Chairman, Fourth International Conference on Dynamical Processes, Stanford University (1983 - 1983)Member, American Chemical SocietyMember, American Optical SocietyProfessional EducationPh.D., University of California at Berkeley, Chemistry (1974)B.S., University of California at Berkeley, Chemistry (1969) Featured Publications Fayer, M. D., & Levinger, N. E. (2010). Analysis of Water in Confined Geometries and at Interfaces. ANNUAL REVIEW OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY, VOL 3, 3, 89107. Wong, D. B., Giammanco, C. H., Fenn, E. E., & Fayer, M. D. (2013). Dynamics of isolated water molecules in a sea of ions in a room temperature ionic liquid. Journal of Physical Chemistry. B, 117(2), 62335. Kramer, P. L., Giammanco, C. H., & Fayer, M. D. (2015). Dynamics of water, methanol, and ethanol in a room temperature ionic liquid. Journal of Chemical Physics, 142(21), 212408-? Sokolowsky, K. P., Bailey, H. E., & Fayer, M. D. (2014). New divergent dynamics in the isotropic to nematic phase transition of liquid crystals measured with 2D IR vibrational echo spectroscopy. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 141(19). Sturlaugson, A. L., Arima, A. Y., Bailey, H. E., & Fayer, M. D. (2013). Orientational Dynamics in a Lyotropic Room Temperature Ionic Liquid. JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY B, 117(47), 1477514784. Thielges, M. C., & Fayer, M. D. (2012). Protein Dynamics Studied with Ultrafast Two-Dimensional Infrared Vibrational Echo Spectroscopy. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 45(11), 186674. Lawler, C., & Fayer, M. D. (2015). Proton Transfer in Ionic and Neutral Reverse Micelles. JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY B, 119(19), 602434. Nishida, J., Tamimi, A., Fei, H., Pullen, S., Ott, S., Cohen, S. M., & Fayer, M. D. (2014). Structural dynamics inside a functionalized metal-organic framework probed by ultrafast 2D IR spectroscopy. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 111(52), 1844247. Yan, C., Yuan, R., Nishida, J., & Fayer, M. D. (2015). Structural Influences on the Fast Dynamics of Alkylsiloxane Monolayers on SiO2 Surfaces Measured with 2D IR Spectroscopy. JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY C, 119(29), 1681123. Kel, O., Tamimi, A., & Fayer, M. D. (2015). The Influence of Cholesterol on Fast Dynamics Inside of Vesicle and Planar Phospholipid Bilayers Measured with 2D IR Spectroscopy. JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY B, 119(29), 88528862. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:fayer@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-4446Full Stanford Profile:Michael FayerAdmin ContactTeresa ThrockmortonEmail:tsthrock@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 725-9741 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
