Lynette Cegelski | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Lynette Cegelski Lynette CegelskiAssociate Professor of Chemistry and, by courtesy, of Chemical EngineeringPhysical ChemistryChemistry-Biology InterfaceChemical and Structural Microbiology; Solids NMR; Chemical Biology; BiophysicsThe Cegelski LabAboutAssociate Professor Lynette Cegelski's research is inspired by the challenge and importance of elucidating chemical structure and function in biological systems and the need for new and unconventional approaches to solve outstanding problems in biology and medicine. The Cegelski laboratory has developed a unique set of tools, particularly integrating solid-state NMR spectroscopy with biochemistry and microbiology, to determine atomic- and molecular-level detail in macromolecular assemblies, intact cells, and bacterial biofilms. Coupled with small-molecule screening and inhibitor discovery, they are driving the development of new strategies to address the global challenge of antibiotic resistance and infectious disease.Lynette Cegelski completed her undergraduate studies in Chemistry at SUNY-Binghamton, New York (B.S. summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa 1998), where she participated in research to determine the microtubule-bound conformation of the anti-cancer drug Taxol by REDOR solid-state NMR. This formative experience motivated her move to Washington University to conduct her PhD training in the laboratory of Professor Jacob Schaefer, where she trained as a solid-state NMR spectroscopist (Ph.D. Biophysical Chemistry 2004). She investigated cell-wall and whole-cell systems and examined photosynthesis and photorespiration in intact leaf NMR experiments. She gained expertise in Microbiology and Infectious Disease research as a postdoctoral fellow in Molecular Microbiology at the Washington University School of Medicine, working with Professor Scott Hultgren. There, she introduced the first small-molecule inhibitors of functional amyloid assembly in bacteria. She joined the faculty of the Stanford Chemistry Department in 2008. Her work has garnered early career awards, including the Burroughs Wellcome Career Award at the Scientific Interface, the 2010 NIH Directors New Innovator Award, and the National Science Foundation CAREER Award.Current research in the Cegelski Lab examines bacterial cell-wall composition and, beyond the cell surface, how bacteria self-assemble extracellular structures and use these as building blocks to generate biofilm architectures. Parallel efforts involve the dissection of modes of action of newly discovered antimicrobials and anti-virulence compounds. Lab members employ biophysical and biochemical tools, develop new assays and protocols, and design new strategies using solid-state NMR spectroscopy to examine assemblies such as amyloid fibers, bacterial cell walls, and biofilms. Recent discoveries have emerged from work with E. coli, S. aureus, Vibrio cholerae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Translationally, small-molecule screening efforts have identified biofilm inhibitors that are being tested as potential inhibitors of pathogenesis in vivo. The laboratory recently discovered that E. coli produces a chemically modified form of cellulose that contributes to the integrity of the biofilm extracellular matrix. Its presence evaded detection through decades of research on bacterial cellulose due to the challenges associated with using solution-based methods to interrogate biomass breakdown products. The laboratory is pursuing several avenues related to manipulations and applications of this new cellulosic material. Additional targets of study include functional amyloid fibers termed curli and the mechanism by which bacteria use curli together with cellulose to construct biofilm architectures. The curli system is notable as a dedicated amyloid-assembly machinery and inhibitors of curli assembly may also hold promise as inhibitors of amyloids associated with human disease.Collectively, the Cegelski Research Program is positioned at the scientific interface of Chemistry, Biology, and Engineering and is revealing new bacterial structures, new anti-infective targets, and inhibitors of bacterial adhesion and biofilm formation. AppointmentsAssociate Professor, ChemistryAssociate Professor (By courtesy), Chemical EngineeringMember, Bio-XFaculty Fellow, Stanford ChEM-HMember, Wu Tsai Neurosciences InstituteHonors & AwardsNSF CAREER Award, National Science Foundation (2015)Hellman Faculty Scholar Award, Hellman Fellows Fund (2012)Terman Fellowship, Stanford University (2011)NIH Director's New Innovator Award, National Institutes of Health (2010)Career Award at the Scientific Interface, Burroughs Wellcome Fund (2008)Terman Fellowship, Stanford University (2008)Professional EducationPostdoc, Washington University School of Medicine, Molecular Microbiology (2008)PhD, Washington University, Chemistry (2004)BS, Binghamton University, SUNY, Chemistry (1998) Featured Publications Romaniuk, J. A. H., & Cegelski, L. (2015). Bacterial cell wall composition and the influence of antibiotics by cell-wall and whole-cell NMR. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences, 370(1679). Cegelski, L. (2015). Bottom-up and top-down solid-state NMR approaches for bacterial biofilm matrix composition. Journal of Magnetic Resonance , 253, 9197. Maher, M. C., Lim, J. Y., Gunawan, C., & Cegelski, L. (2015). Cell-Based High-Throughput Screening Identifies Rifapentine as an Inhibitor of Amyloid and Biofilm Formation in Escherichia coli. ACS INFECTIOUS DISEASES, 1(10), 460468. Reichhardt, C., Jacobson, A. N., Maher, M. C., Uang, J., McCrate, O. A., Eckart, M., & Cegelski, L. (2015). Congo Red Interactions with Curli-Producing E. coli and Native Curli Amyloid Fibers. PloS One, 10(10). McCrate, O. A., Zhou, X., & Cegelski, L. (2013). Curcumin as an amyloid-indicator dye in E. coli. Chemical Communications , 49(39), 419395. Lim, J. Y., May, J. M., & Cegelski, L. (2012). Dimethyl Sulfoxide and Ethanol Elicit Increased Amyloid Biogenesis and Amyloid-Integrated Biofilm Formation in Escherichia coli. APPLIED AND ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY, 78(9), 336978. Reichhardt, C., McCrate, O. A., Zhou, X., Lee, J., Thongsonboom, W., & Cegelski, L. (2016). Influence of the amyloid dye Congo red on curli, cellulose, and the extracellular matrix in E. coli during growth and matrix purification. Influence of the Amyloid Dye Congo Red on Curli, Cellulose, and the Extracellular Matrix in E. Coli during Growth and Matrix Purification, 408(27). Romaniuk, J. A. H., & Cegelski, L. (2018). Peptidoglycan and Teichoic Acid Levels and Alterations in Staphylococcus aureus by Cell-Wall and Whole-Cell Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. BIOCHEMISTRY, 57(26), 396675. Thongsomboon, W., Serra, D. O., Possling, A., Hadjineophytou, C., Hengge, R., & Cegelski, L. (2018). Phosphoethanolamine cellulose: A naturally produced chemically modified cellulose. SCIENCE, 359(6373), 33438. Cegelski, L. (2013). REDOR NMR for Drug Discovery. Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:cegelski@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 725-3527Full Stanford Profile:Lynette CegelskiAdmin ContactDebra FrankEmail:dfrank@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 725-0261 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
