Justin Du Bois | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Justin Du Bois Justin Du BoisHenry Dreyfus Professor in Chemistry and Professor, by courtesy, of Chemical and Systems BiologyOrganic ChemistryChemistry-Biology InterfaceCatalysisThe Du Bois LaboratoryAboutResearch and ScholarshipResearch in the Du Bois laboratory spans reaction methods development, natural product synthesis, and chemical biology, and draws on expertise in molecular design, molecular recognition, and physical organic chemistry. An outstanding goal of our program has been to develop CH bond functionalization processes as general methods for organic chemistry, and to demonstrate how such tools can impact the logic of chemical synthesis. A second area of interest focuses on the role of ion channels in electrical conduction and the specific involvement of channel subtypes in the sensation of pain. This work is enabled in part through the advent of small molecule modulators of channel function.The Du Bois group has described new tactics for the selective conversion of saturated CH to CN and CO bonds. These methods have general utility in synthesis, making possible the single-step incorporation of nitrogen and oxygen functional groups and thus simplifying the process of assembling complex molecules. To date, lab members have employed these versatile oxidation technologies to prepare natural products that include manzacidin A and C, agelastatin, tetrodotoxin, and saxitoxin. Detailed mechanistic studies of metal-catalyzed CH functionalization reactions are performed in parallel with process development and chemical synthesis. These efforts ultimately give way to advances in catalyst design. A long-standing goal of this program is to identify robust catalyst systems that afford absolute control of reaction selectivity. In a second program area, the Du Bois group is exploring voltage-gated ion channel structure and function using the tools of chemistry in combination with those of molecular biology, electrophysiology, microscopy and mass spectrometry. Much of this work has focused on studies of eukaryotic Na and Cl ion channels. The Du Bois lab is interested in understanding the biochemical mechanisms that underlie channel subtype regulation and how such processes may be altered following nerve injury. Small molecule toxins serve as lead compounds for the design of isoform-selective channel modulators, affinity reagents, and fluorescence imaging probes. Access to toxins and modified forms thereof (including saxitoxin, gonyautoxin, batrachotoxin, and veratridine) through de novo synthesis drives studies to elucidate toxin-receptor interactions and to develop new pharmacologic tools to study ion channel function in primary cells and murine pain models. AppointmentsProfessor, ChemistryProfessor (By courtesy), Chemical and Systems BiologyMember, Bio-XMember, Maternal & Child Health Research Institute (MCHRI)Faculty Fellow, Stanford ChEM-HMember, Wu Tsai Neurosciences InstituteOther AppointmentsCourtesy faculty, Dept. of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University (2013 - Present)Faculty Affiliate, Stanford Neuroscience Institute (2013 - Present)Executive Committee Member, Stanford ChEM-H (2012 - Present)Cofounder, Board Member, SiteOne Therapeutics, Inc (2011 - Present)Founder, Center for Molecular Analysis and Design at Stanford (2009 - Present)Founding Member, NSF Center for Selective CH Functionalization (2009 - Present)Permanent Member, NIH study section, Synthetic & Biological Chemistry A (2009 - 2013)Member, Bio-X (2004 - Present)Member, American Chemical Society (1992 - Present)Honors & AwardsJohn A. and Cynthia Fry Gunn University Fellow in Undergraduate Education, Stanford University (20112020)Deans Award for Distinguished Achievements in Teaching, Stanford University (2008)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsScientist Consultant, Pfizer Inc. (2004 - Present)Scientist Consultant, Gilead Sciences (2007 - Present)Founder and Board Member, SiteOne Therapeutics (2010 - Present)Professional EducationPostdoc, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Chemistry (1999)PhD, California Institute of Technology, Chemistry (1997)BS, University of California, Berkeley, Chemistry (1992) Featured Publications Logan, M. M., Toma, T., Thomas-Tran, R., & Du Bois, J. (2016). Asymmetric synthesis of batrachotoxin: Enantiomeric toxins show functional divergence against Na-V. SCIENCE, 354(6314), 86569. Sathyamoorthi, S., & Du Bois, J. (2016). Copper-Catalyzed Oxidative Cyclization of Carboxylic Acids. ORGANIC LETTERS, 18(24), 630811. Ondrus, A. E., Lee, H.-L. D., Iwanaga, S., Parsons, W. H., Andresen, B. M., Moerner, W. E., & Du Bois, J. (2012). Fluorescent Saxitoxins for Live Cell Imaging of Single Voltage-Gated Sodium Ion Channels beyond the Optical Diffraction Limit. CHEMISTRY & BIOLOGY, 19(7), 90212. Toma, T., Logan, M. M., Maynard, F., Devlin, A. S., & Du Bois, J. (2016). Inhibition of Sodium Ion Channel Function with Truncated Forms of Batrachotoxin. ACS Chem. Neurosci., 7(10). Chiappini, N. D., Mack, J. B., & Du Bois, J. (2018). Intermolecular sp3 C-H Amination of Complex Molecules. Angewandte Chemie (International Ed. in English). Moretti, R. A., Du Bois, J., & Stack, T. D. P. (2016). Manganese(II)/Picolinic Acid Catalyst System for Epoxidation of Olefins. ORGANIC LETTERS, 18(11), 252831. Walker, J. R., Novick, P. A., Parsons, W. H., McGregor, M., Zablocki, J., Pande, V. S., & Du Bois, J. (2012). Marked difference in saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin affinity for the human nociceptive voltage-gated sodium channel (Nav1.7) [corrected]. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 109(44), 181027. Banerjee, S., Sathyamoorthi, S., Du Bois, J., & Zare, R. N. (2017). Mechanistic analysis of a copper-catalyzed C-H oxidative cyclization of carboxylic acids. Chemical Science, 8(10), 70038. Roizen, J. L., Harvey, M. E., & Du Bois, J. (2012). Metal-Catalyzed Nitrogen-Atom Transfer Methods for the Oxidation of Aliphatic C-H Bonds. ACCOUNTS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH, 45(6), 911922. Thomas-Tran, R., & Du Bois, J. (2016). Mutant cycle analysis with modified saxitoxins reveals specific interactions critical to attaining high-affinity inhibition of hNa(V)1.7. PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 113(21), 585661. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:jdubois@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 724-4557Full Stanford Profile:Justin Du BoisAdmin ContactLinda UmbertusEmail:lindau@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-1359 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
