Thomas Markland | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Thomas Markland Thomas MarklandAssociate Professor of ChemistryPhysical ChemistryTheoretical ChemistryThe Markland GroupAboutProfessor Thomas Markland focuses on problems at the interface of quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics, with applications ranging from chemistry and biology to geology and materials science. Markland Group research frequently explores theories of hydrogen bonding, the interplay between structure and dynamics, systems with multiple time and length-scales, and quantum mechanical effects. Particular current interests include proton and electron transfer in materials and enzymatic systems, atmospheric isotope separation, and the control of catalytic chemical reactivity in heterogeneous environments.Thomas E. Markland studied chemistry at Balliol College, University of Oxford (MChem 2006), where as a Brackenbury Scholar he performed thesis work in the area of non-adiabatic dynamics. He continued at Oxford (D.Phil. 2009), working in quantum dynamics under the supervision of Professor David Manolopoulos. Together, the two developed an approach to allow quantum effects of nuclei to be included in condensed phase simulation at near classical computational cost, as well as elucidating isotope effects observed in liquids. Next, during postdoctoral work with Bruce Berne at Columbia University, Professor Markland focused on structure and dynamics in classical and quantum biophysical systems. He moved to Stanford in 2011 as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry. He has received recognition in a number of awards, including the Stanford Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching, Cottrell Scholarship, ACS OpenEye Outstanding Junior Faculty Award, and Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship.In broad terms, current research in the Markland Group lies in the application and development of theoretical methods to model condensed phase systems, with a particular emphasis on the role of quantum mechanical effects. Treatment of these problems requires a range of theoretical approaches as well as molecular mechanics and ab initio simulations. Lab members are particularly interested in developing and applying methods based on the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics to include quantum fluctuations such as zero-point energy and tunneling in the dynamics of reactive condensed phase systems. The group has also developed methods to treat non-equilibrium excited state dynamics by exploiting the combination of quantum-classical theory and quantum master equation approaches.Work in the Markland Group has already provided insights into several systems, including reactions in liquids and enzymes, and the quantum liquidglass transition. Group members have also introduced methods to perform path integral calculations at near classical computational cost, expanding our ability to treat large-scale condensed phase systems.Please visit the Markland Group website to learn more. AppointmentsAssociate Professor, ChemistryMember, Bio-XOther AppointmentsMember, Stanford PULSE Institute, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory (2014 - Present)Honors & AwardsKavli Emerging Leader in Chemistry Lecture, Kavli Foundation (2019)Camille Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award, Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation (2017)Terman Fellow, Stanford University (2017)NSF CAREER award, National Science Foundation (2016)Cottrell Scholar, Research Corporation for Science Advancement (2015)Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching, Stanford University School of Humanities & Sciences (2015)Hellman Faculty Scholar, Stanford University (2014)OpenEye Outstanding Junior Faculty Award, American Chemical Society (2014)Sloan Research Fellowship, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation (2014)Terman Fellow, Stanford University (2012)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsGeneral Member, Telluride Science Research Center (2015 - Present)Professional EducationPostdoc, Columbia University, Theoretical Chemistry (2010)DPhil, University of Oxford, Chemistry (2009)MChem, University of Oxford, Chemistry (2006) Featured Publications Marsalek, O., & Markland, T. E. (2016). Ab initio molecular dynamics with nuclear quantum effects at classical cost: Ring polymer contraction for density functional theory. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 144(5). Mao, Y., Montoya-Castillo, A., & Markland, T. E. (2019). Accurate and efficient DFT-based diabatization for hole and electron transfer using absolutely localized molecular orbitals. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 151(16), 164114. Kelly, A., Brackbill, N., & Markland, T. E. (2015). Accurate nonadiabatic quantum dynamics on the cheap: Making the most of mean field theory with master equations. Journal of Chemical Physics, 142(9), 094110-? Napoli, J. A., Marsalek, O., & Markland, T. E. (2018). Decoding the spectroscopic features and time scales of aqueous proton defects. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 148(22), 222833. Kelly, A., & Markland, T. E. (2013). Efficient and accurate surface hopping for long time nonadiabatic quantum dynamics. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 139(1). Pfalzgraff, W. C., Montoya-Castillo, A., Kelly, A., & Markland, T. E. (2019). Efficient construction of generalized master equation memory kernels for multi-state systems from nonadiabatic quantum-classical dynamics. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 150(24), 244109. Ceriotti, M., & Markland, T. E. (2013). Efficient methods and practical guidelines for simulating isotope effects. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 138(1). Long, Z., Atsango, A. O., Napoli, J. A., Markland, T. E., & Tuckerman, M. E. (2020). Elucidating the Proton Transport Pathways in Liquid Imidazole with First-Principles Molecular Dynamics. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters, 615663. Chen, M. S., Zuehlsdorff, T. J., Morawietz, T., Isborn, C. M., & Markland, T. E. (2020). Exploiting Machine Learning to Efficiently Predict Multidimensional Optical Spectra in Complex Environments. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters, 755968. Kelly, A., Montoya-Castillo, A., Wang, L., & Markland, T. E. (2016). Generalized quantum master equations in and out of equilibrium: When can one win? JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 144(18). See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:tmarkland@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-9592Full Stanford Profile:Thomas MarklandAdmin ContactMaggie YeungEmail:meiyee18@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 724-7306 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
