W. E. Moerner | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam W. E. Moerner W. E. MoernerHarry S. Mosher Professor and Professor, by courtesy, of Applied PhysicsPhysical ChemistryChemistry-Biology InterfaceSingle molecules for super-resolution cellular imaging and biomolecular dynamicsMoerner LabAboutW. E. (William Esco) Moerner, the Harry S. Mosher Professor of Chemistry and Professor by courtesy of Applied Physics, has conducted research in physical chemistry, biophysics, and the optical properties of single molecules, and is actively involved in the development of 2D and 3D super-resolution imaging for cell biology. Imaging studies include protein superstructures in bacteria, structure of proteins in cells, studies of chromatin organization, and dynamics of regulatory proteins in the primary cilium. Using powerful microscopes optimized for tracking of single objects in cells, the motions of proteins, DNA, and RNA are being measured in three dimensions in real time to understand processing and binding interactions. A related research area concerns precise analysis of photodynamics of single trapped biomolecules in solution, with applications to photosynthesis, protein-protein interactions, and transport measurements.Born on June 24, 1953 at Parks Air Force Base in Pleasanton, California, Professor Moerner was raised in San Antonio, Texas. He attended Washington University as a Langsdorf Engineering Fellow, graduating in 1975 with degrees in Physics and Electrical Engineering (both B.S. with top honors), and Mathematics (A.B. summa cum laude). His doctoral research in physics at Cornell University (M.S. 1978, Ph.D. 1982) employed tunable infrared lasers to explore infrared vibrational modes of impurities in crystals. In 1982, he moved from New York to San Jose, California to join the IBM Research Division developing spectral holeburning for frequency domain optical storage and photorefractivity for dynamic hologram formation. After 13 years at IBM, Dr. Moerner accepted a position as Distinguished Professor of Physical Chemistry at UC San Diego, where he broadened his research to include biological systems and biophysics. Recruited to the Stanford Chemistry Department faculty in 1997, he served as Chair of the department from 2011 to 2014.Professor Moerners scientific contributions were recognized with the 2014 Nobel Prize in Chemistry "for the development of super-resolved fluorescence microscopy." One method to surpass the optical diffraction limit (PALM/STORM) uses single-molecule imaging combined with a control mechanism to keep the concentration of emitting molecules at a very low level, followed by sequential localization to reconstruct the underlying structure. The fundamentals of this idea came from early work in the Moerner lab: optical detection and imaging of single molecules (1989) combined with blinking and switching at low temperature, as well as the discovery of optical control of single copies of green fluorescent protein at room temperature (1997). Among many other honors and awards, Professor Moerner was elected fellow of the American Physical Society, Optical Society of America, American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Academy of Arts and Sciences; and member of the National Academy of Sciences.Today, the Moerner Laboratory uses laser spectroscopy and microscopy of single molecules to probe biological processes, one molecule at a time. Primary thrusts include development and application of fluorescence microscopy far beyond the optical diffraction limit by PALM/STORM and STED approaches, single-molecule tracking in complex cellular environments, invention and validation of methods for precise and accurate 3D optical microscopy in cells, and trapping of single photosynthetic biomolecules in solution for extended study. Through a variety of collaborations, these approaches are applied to explore protein and oligonucleotide localization patterns in bacteria, measure structures of amyloid aggregates in cells, define the behavior of signaling proteins in the primary cilium, quantify photodynamics for photosynthetic proteins and enzymes, and observe the dynamics of DNA and RNA in cells and viruses.Please visit the Moerner Lab home page for more information. AppointmentsProfessor, ChemistryMember, Bio-XFaculty Fellow, Stanford ChEM-HMember, Wu Tsai Neurosciences InstituteOther AppointmentsFaculty Fellow, ChEM-H at Stanford (2014 - Present)Chairman, Department of Chemistry, Stanford University (2011 - 2014)Member, Advisory Board, Center for Biological Imaging at Stanford (2010 - 2015)Member, Board of Scientific Counselors, NIBIB (2010 - 2014)Chair, University Health and Safety Committee (2008 - 2010)Honors & AwardsNobel Prize in Chemistry, Nobel Foundation (2014)Wu Zheng Kai Chemistry Prize, Fudan University (2018)Distinguished Eagle Scout Award, Boy Scouts of America (2017)INSPIRE Award for Excellence, San Antonio Independent School District (2016)Julio Palmaz Award for Innovation in Healthcare and Biosciences, BioMed SA (2015)Peter Debye Award in Physical Chemistry, American Chemical Society (2013)Irving Langmuir Prize in Chemical Physics, American Physical Society (2009)Wolf Prize in Chemistry, Wolf Foundation of Israel (2008)Member, National Academy of Sciences (2007)Earle K. Plyler Prize in Molecular Spectroscopy, American Physical Society (2001)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsTrustee, Society for Science and the Public (2018 - Present)Member, Scientific Advisory Board, Welch Foundation (2017 - Present)Member, International Advisory Board, Angewandte Chemie (2017 - Present)Member, Advisory Board, Institute of Atomic and Molecular Sciences, Academica Sinica, Taiwan (2003 - Present)Member, Corporation Visiting Committee, Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2013 - 2017)Editorial Advisory Board Member, Journal of Physical Chemistry (2013 - 2015)Member, Board of Scientific Counselors, National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (2010 - 2014)Member, DOE Workshop on Single-Molecule Research in the New Millenium (2005 - 2005)Advisory Editor, Single Molecules (2000 - 2002)Member, NIH-NIGMS Workshop on Single Molecule Detection and Manipulation (2000 - 2000)Professional EducationPh.D., Cornell University, Physics (1982)M.S., Cornell University, Physics (1978)B. S., Washington University, Physics (1975)B. S., Washington University, Electrical Engineering (1975)A. B., Washington University, Mathematics (1975) Featured Publications Gustavsson, A.-K., Petrov, P. N., Lee, M. Y., Shechtman, Y., & Moerner, W. E. (2018). 3D single-molecule super-resolution microscopy with a tilted light sheet. NATURE COMMUNICATIONS, 9, 123. Conley, N. R., Dragulescu-Andrasi, A., Rao, J., & Moerner, W. E. (2012). A Selenium Analogue of Firefly D-Luciferin with Red-Shifted Bioluminescence Emission. ANGEWANDTE CHEMIE-INTERNATIONAL EDITION, 51(14), 335053. Ptacin, J. L., Lee, S. F., Garner, E. C., Toro, E., Eckart, M., Comolli, L. R., Shapiro, L. (2010). A spindle-like apparatus guides bacterial chromosome segregation. NATURE CELL BIOLOGY, 12(8), 791U46. Mckl, L., Roy, A. R., Petrov, P. N., & Moerner, W. E. (2019). Accurate and rapid background estimation in single-molecule localization microscopy using the deep neural network BGnet. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. Zhou, X., Wang, J., Herrmann, J., Moerner, W. E., & Shapiro, L. (2019). Asymmetric division yields progeny cells with distinct modes of regulating cell cycle-dependent chromosome methylation. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. Ptacin, J. L., Gahlmann, A., Bowman, G. R., Perez, A. M., von Diezmann, A. R. S., Eckart, M. R., Shapiro, L. (2014). Bacterial scaffold directs pole-specific centromere segregation. PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 111(19), E2046E2055. Sahl, S. J., Weiss, L. E., Duim, W. C., Frydman, J., & Moerner, W. E. (2012). Cellular Inclusion Bodies of Mutant Huntingtin Exon 1 Obscure Small Fibrillar Aggregate Species. SCIENTIFIC REPORTS, 2. Backlund, M. P., Joyner, R., & Moerner, W. E. (2015). Chromosomal locus tracking with proper accounting of static and dynamic errors. PHYSICAL REVIEW E, 91(6). Backlund, M. P., Joyner, R., & Moerner, W. E. (2015). Chromosomal locus tracking with proper accounting of static and dynamic errors. Physical Review. E, Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics, 91(6), 062716-? Bockenhauer, S., Frstenberg, A., Yao, X. J., Kobilka, B. K., & Moerner, W. E. (2011). Conformational dynamics of single G protein-coupled receptors in solution. Journal of Physical Chemistry. B, 115(45), 1332838. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:wmoerner@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-1727Full Stanford Profile:W. E. MoernerAdmin ContactNancy McCarthyEmail:nancylm@stanford.eduPhone:650-736-8120 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
