Daniel Stack | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Daniel Stack Daniel StackAssociate Professor of ChemistryOrganic ChemistryInorganic ChemistryMaterials ChemistryCatalysisStack Research GroupAboutResearch in the Stack group focuses on the mechanism of dioxygen activation and the subsequent oxidative reactivity with primarily copper complexes ligated by imidazoles or histamines. Specifically, the group is interested in substrate hydroxylations and full dioxygen reduction. The remarkable specificity and energy efficiency of metalloenzymes provide the inspiration for the work. Trapping and characterizing immediate species, primarily at low temperatures, provide key mechanistic insights especially through substrate reactivity along with spectroscopic and metrical correlation to DFT calculations. Our objective is to move these efficient enzymatic mechanisms into small synthetic complexes, not only to reproduce biological reactivity, but more importantly to move the oxidative mechanism beyond that possible in the protein matrix.Daniel Stack was born, raised and attended college in Portland Oregon. He received his B.A. from Reed College in 1982 (Phi Beta Kappa), working with Professor Tom Dunne on weak nickel-pyrazine complexes. In Boston, he pursued his doctoral study in synthetic inorganic chemistry at Harvard University (Ph.D., 1988) with Professor R. H. Holm, investigating site-differentiated synthetic analogues of biological Fe4S4 cubanes. As an NSF Postdoctoral Fellow with Professor K. N. Raymond at the University of California at Berkeley, he worked on synthesizing new, higher iron affinity ligands similar to enterobactin, a bacterial iron sequestering agent. He started his independent career in 1991 at Stanford University primarily working on oxidation catalysis and dioxygen activation, and was promoted to an Associate Professor in 1998. His contributions to undergraduate education have been recognized at the University level on several occasions, including the Dinkelspiel Award for Outstanding Contribution to Undergraduate Education in 2003. Areas of current focus include: Copper Dioxygen ChemistryOur current interests focus on stabilizing species formed in the reaction of dioxygen with Cu(I) complexes formed with biologically relevant imidazole or histamine ligation. Many multi-copper enzymes ligated in this manner are capable of impressive hydroxylation reactions, including oxidative depolymerization of cellulose, methane oxidation, and energy-efficient reduction of dioxygen to water. Oxygenation of such complexes at extreme solution temperatures (-125C) yield transient Cu(III) containing complexes. As Cu(III) is currently uncharacterized in any biological enzyme, developing connections between the synthetic and biological realms is a major focus. Surface Immobilization of Catalysts in Mesoporous MaterialsIn redox active biological metal sites, the ligation environment is coupled tightly to the functional chemistry. Yet, the metal sites are also site-isolated, creating species that may only have a transient existence in a homogeneous solution. Site isolation of synthetic complexes can be achieved synthetically by supporting the metal complex on a solid matrix. Movement of these complexes into silica based materials or onto electroactive carbon electrodes represent a new direction for the group in the development of bio-inspired metal-based catalysts. AppointmentsAssociate Professor, ChemistryHonors & AwardsDinkelspiel Award for Outstanding Contribution to Undergraduate Education, Stanford University (2003)Hoefer Teaching Award, Stanford University (1997)Bing Foundation Teaching Award, Stanford University (1995-98)Shell Foundation New Faculty Award, Shell Foundation (1993-95)Harvard Danforth Distinguished Teaching Award, Harvard University (1983, 1984)Professional EducationNSF Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley, Inorganic Chemistry (1988)PhD, Harvard University, Inorganic Chemistry (1988)BA, Reed College, Chemistry (1982) Featured Publications Jonas, R. T., & Stack, T. D. P. (1997). C-H bond activation by a ferric methoxide complex: A model for the rate-determining step in the mechanism of lipoxygenase. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 119(36), 85668567. Goldsmith, C. R., Jonas, R. T., & Stack, T. D. P. (2002). C-H bond activation by a ferric methoxide complex: Modeling the rate-determining step in the mechanism of lipoxygenase. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 124(1), 8396. Wang, Y. D., Dubois, J. L., Hedman, B., Hodgson, K. O., & Stack, T. D. P. (1998). Catalytic galactose oxidase models: Biomimetic Cu(II)-phenoxyl-radical reactivity. SCIENCE, 279(5350), 537540. Hoffmann, A., Citek, C., Binder, S., Goos, A., Ruebhausen, M., Troeppner, O., Herres-Pawlis, S. (2013). Catalytic Phenol Hydroxylation with Dioxygen: Extension of the Tyrosinase Mechanism beyond the Protein Matrix. ANGEWANDTE CHEMIE-INTERNATIONAL EDITION, 52(20), 53985401. Gary, J. B., Citek, C., Brown, T. A., Zare, R. N., Wasinger, E. C., & Stack, T. D. P. (2016). Direct Copper(III) Formation from O2 and Copper(I) with Histamine Ligation. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 138(31), 998695. Murphy, A., Dubois, G., & Stack, T. D. P. (2003). Efficient epoxidation of electron-deficient olefins with a cationic manganese complex. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 125(18), 52505251. Mahadevan, V., Hou, Z. G., Cole, A. P., Root, D. E., Lal, T. K., SOLOMON, E. I., & Stack, T. D. P. (1997). Irreversible reduction of dioxygen by simple peralkylated diamine-copper(I) complexes: Characterization and thermal stability of a [Cu-2(mu-O)(2)](2+) core. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 119(49), 1199611997. Moretti, R. A., Du Bois, J., & Stack, T. D. P. (2016). Manganese(II)/Picolinic Acid Catalyst System for Epoxidation of Olefins. ORGANIC LETTERS, 18(11), 252831. Smith, B. J., Gallegos, P. A. H., Butsch, K., & Stack, T. D. P. (2016). Metal complex assembly controlled by surface ligand distribution on mesoporous silica: Quantification using refractive index matching and impact on catalysis. JOURNAL OF CATALYSIS, 335, 197203. Citek, C., Lyons, C. T., Wasinger, E. C., & Stack, T. D. P. (2012). Self-assembly of the oxy-tyrosinase core and the fundamental components of phenolic hydroxylation. NATURE CHEMISTRY, 4(4), 31722. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:stack@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-9830Full Stanford Profile:Daniel StackAdmin ContactNancy McCarthyEmail:nancylm@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 736-8120 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
