Organic Chemistry | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research AreasOrganic Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry Physical Chemistry Theoretical Chemistry Chemistry-Biology Interface Materials Chemistry Catalysis Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Organic Chemistry Postdoctoral researcher Han Xiao, Professor Carolyn Bertozzi and graduate student Elliot Woods discuss methods to make cancer cells visible to the immune system. Linda A. Cicero, Stanford News Service Understanding carbon-based substances and developing economic, green strategies to produce useful new molecules, reactions and materials Stanford chemists are developing more efficient and sustainable chemistries by exploring the structure, properties and reactions of organic compounds and materials. New reagents and catalysts are enabling greener industrial processes. Growing understanding of natural product properties, activities and synthesis are leading to potential new therapeutics, in close collaborations with researchers in the School of Medicine. These cutting-edge efforts build on a strong departmental history in organic synthesis. Organic Synthesis Invention of new tools and methods make it possible to create complex molecules from simple starting materials, more rapidly and cost-efficiently. Stanford chemists are developing new methods to synthesize target molecules with potential applications as novel catalysts, antibiotics and antitumor therapies; atomically efficient methods to create new transition-metal-based non-protein catalysts; new atom and group transfer-type reaction processes for natural product synthesis and chemical biology; and novel approaches to the design and synthesis of exotic small and giant molecules for custom properties. Elusive, selective reactions at the boundaries of modern organic synthesis take inspiration from natural products and answer questions about their properties and activities. Molecular Design Stanford chemists are crafted designers of a wide variety of molecules for applications in chemical synthesis, materials science, and biomedicine. Advancements in synthetic capabilities and efficiency allow for freedom of molecular design. Stanford chemists are designing new reactions, catalysts, and reagents for more efficient, selective, and robust chemical transformations; new molecular strategies to develop more effective drugs; new imaging agents, optical reporters, and molecular delivery vehicles to allow integration of biological systems and delivery of therapeutics into cells; new classes of biological probes for the study of cell surface glycans; fluorescent probes of DNA repair enzymes in cells and tissues; and novel classes of unusual molecular and polymeric materials with tailored optical, electronic, thermal, and mechanical properties. Green Chemistries Using mechanistic principles to develop new catalytic strategies, Stanford chemists synthesize complex, useful macromolecular architectures, including sustainable polymers, synthetic fuels, and bioactive molecules; and develop cost-efficient catalysts and chemical reactions that recycle CO2 into fuels and commodity chemicals using renewable energy sources. To understand and reproduce the remarkable specificity and energy efficiency of metalloenzymes, Stanford chemist are studying the mechanism of dioxygen activation by copper-containing enzymes. Biomedicine Stanford researchers are employing organic methods to explore the roles of cell-surface sugars and glycosylation in health, aging and illness, including cancer; to study and engineer enzymatic assembly lines that catalyze the biosynthesis of antibiotics in bacteria; and to design nucleotides with unusual properties such as fluorescence, enzyme reactivity, or altered shape and bonding ability, as tools to study nucleotide function and potential new probes for cancer diagnosis. Computer Modeling Computer studies of target molecules with desirable properties are finding ways to create functionally similar species that require fewer steps to synthesize a technique called function oriented design and synthesis. Associated Faculty Carolyn Bertozzi Director, ChEM-H, Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences and Professor, by courtesy, of Chemical and Systems Biology John Brauman J.G. Jackson and C.J. Wood Professor of Chemistry, Emeritus Noah Burns Associate Professor of Chemistry James K. Chen Jauch Professor and Professor of Chemical and Systems Biology, of Developmental Biology and of Chemistry James Collman George A. and Hilda M. Daubert Professor of Chemistry, Emeritus Justin Du Bois Henry Dreyfus Professor in Chemistry and Professor, by courtesy, of Chemical and Systems Biology Matthew Kanan Associate Professor of Chemistry and Senior Fellow at the Precourt Institute for Energy Chaitan Khosla Wells H. Rauser and Harold M. Petiprin Professor in the School of Engineering and Professor of Chemistry and, by courtesy, of Biochemistry Eric Kool The George A. and Hilda M. Daubert Professor in Chemistry Daniel Stack Associate Professor of Chemistry Barry Trost Job and Gertrud Tamaki Professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences Robert Waymouth Robert Eckles Swain Professor in Chemistry and Professor, by courtesy, of Chemical Engineering Paul Wender Francis W. Bergstrom Professor of Chemistry and Professor, by courtesy, of Chemical and Systems Biology Yan Xia Associate Professor of Chemistry Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
