Keith Hodgson | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Keith Hodgson Keith HodgsonDavid Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Photon Science at SLACInorganic ChemistryPhysical ChemistryChemistry-Biology InterfaceAboutCombining inorganic, biophysical and structural chemistry, Professor Keith Hodgson investigates how structure at molecular and macromolecular levels relates to function. Studies in the Hodgson lab have pioneered the use of synchrotron x-radiation to probe the electronic and structural environment of biomolecules. Recent efforts focus on the applications of x-ray diffraction, scattering and absorption spectroscopy to examine metalloproteins that are important in Earths biosphere, such as those that convert nitrogen to ammonia or methane to methanol.Keith O. Hodgson was born in Virginia in 1947. He studied chemistry at the University of Virginia (B.S. 1969) and University of California, Berkeley (Ph.D. 1972), with a postdoctoral year at the ETH in Zurich. He joined the Stanford Chemistry Department faculty in 1973, starting up a program of fundamental research into the use of x-rays to study chemical and biological structure that made use of the unique capabilities of the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource (SSRL). His lab carried out pioneering x-ray absorption and x-ray crystallographic studies of proteins, laying the foundation for a new field now in broad use worldwide. In the early eighties, he began development of one of the world's first synchrotron-based structural molecular biology research and user programs, centered at SSRL. He served as SSRL Director from 1998 to 2005, and SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory (SLAC) Deputy Director (2005-2007) and Associate Laboratory Director for Photon Science (2007-2011).Today the Hodgson research group investigates how molecular structure at different organizational levels relates to biological and chemical function, using a variety of x-ray absorption, diffraction and scattering techniques. Typical of these molecular structural studies are investigations of metal ions as active sites of biomolecules. His research group develops and utilizes techniques such as x-ray absorption and emission spectroscopy (XAS and XES) to study the electronic and metrical details of a given metal ion in the biomolecule under a variety of natural conditions.A major area of focus over many years, the active site of the enzyme nitrogenase is responsible for conversion of atmospheric di-nitrogen to ammonia. Using XAS studies at the S, Fe and Mo edge, the Hodgson group has worked to understand the electronic structure as a function of redox in this cluster. They have developed new methods to study long distances in the cluster within and outside the protein. Studies are ongoing to learn how this cluster functions during catalysis and interacts with substrates and inhibitors. Other components of the protein are also under active study.Additional projects include the study of iron in dioxygen activation and oxidation within the binuclear iron-containing enzyme methane monooxygenase and in cytochrome oxidase. Lab members are also investigating the role of copper in electron transport and in dioxygen activation. Other studies include the electronic structure of iron-sulfur clusters in models and enzymes.The research group is also focusing on using the next generation of x-ray light sources, the free electron laser. Such a light source, called the LCLS, is also located at SLAC. They are also developing new approaches using x-ray free electron laser radiation to image noncrystalline biomolecules and study chemical reactivity on ultrafast time scales. AppointmentsProfessor, Photon Science DirectorateProfessor, ChemistryMember, Bio-XFaculty Fellow, Stanford ChEM-HOther AppointmentsChair, Department of Chemistry, Stanford University (2014 - 2020)Honors & AwardsMember, National Academy of Sciences (2011)E.O. Lawrence Award, U.S. Department of Energy (2002)World Bank Lecturer, World Bank (1984)Robert A. Welch Foundation Lecturer, Robert A. Welch Foundation (1981)Sidhu Award for Contributions to X-ray Diffraction, Pittsburgh Diffraction Society (1978)Alfred P. Sloan Fellow, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation (1976-78)NATO Postdoctoral Fellowship, Eidgenssische Technische Hochschule, Zrich, Switzerland (1972-73)Professional EducationNATO Postdoctoral Fellow, Eidgenssische Technische Hochschule, Zrich, Switzerland, Chemistry (1973)PhD, University of California at Berkeley, Chemistry (1972)BS, University of Virginia, Chemistry (1969) Featured Publications Chapman, H. N., Barty, A., Bogan, M. J., Boutet, S., Frank, M., Hau-Riege, S. P., Hajdu, J. (2006). Femtosecond diffractive imaging with a soft-X-ray free-electron laser. NATURE PHYSICS, 2(12), 83943. Cohen, A. E., Soltis, S. M., Gonzalez, A., Aguila, L., Alonso-Mori, R., Barnes, C. O., Hodgson, K. O. (2014). Goniometer-based femtosecond crystallography with X-ray free electron lasers. PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 111(48), 1712227. Kroll, T., Hadt, R. G., Wilson, S. A., Lundberg, M., Yan, J. J., Weng, T.-C., Solomon, E. I. (2014). Resonant Inelastic X-ray Scattering on Ferrous and Ferric Bis-imidazole Porphyrin and Cytochrome c: Nature and Role of the Axial Methionine-Fe Bond. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 136(52), 1808799. Dey, A., Jenney, F. E., Adams, M. W. W., Babini, E., Takahashi, Y., Fukuyama, K., Solomon, E. I. (2007). Solvent tuning of electrochemical potentials in the active sites of HiPIP versus ferredoxin. SCIENCE, 318(5855), 146468. Kjaergaard, C. H., Qayyum, M. F., Wong, S. D., Xu, F., Hemsworth, G. R., Walton, D. J., Solomon, E. I. (2014). Spectroscopic and computational insight into the activation of O2 by the mononuclear Cu center in polysaccharide monooxygenases. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 111(24), 87978802. Lesley, S. A., Kuhn, P., Godzik, A., Deacon, A. M., Mathews, I., Kreusch, A., Stevens, R. C. (2002). Structural genomics of the Thermotoga maritima proteome implemented in a high-throughput structure determination pipeline. PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 99(18), 1166411669. Cho, J., Jeon, S., Wilson, S. A., Liu, L. V., Kang, E. A., Braymer, J. J., Nam, W. (2011). Structure and reactivity of a mononuclear non-haem iron(III)-peroxo complex. NATURE, 478(7370), 502505. Ha, Y., Tenderholt, A. L., Holm, R. H., Hedman, B., Hodgson, K. O., & Solomon, E. I. (2014). Sulfur K-Edge X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy and Density Functional Theory Calculations on Monooxo Mo-IV and Bisoxo Mo-VI Bis-dithiolenes: Insights into the Mechanism of Oxo Transfer in Sulfite Oxidase and Its Relation to the Mechanism of DMSO Reductase. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 136(25), 90949105. Sarangi, R., George, S. D. B., Rudd, D. J., Szilagyi, R. K., Ribas, X., Rovira, C., Solomon, E. I. (2007). Sulfur K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy as a probe of ligand-metal bond covalency: Metal vs ligand oxidation in copper and nickel dithiolene complexes. JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, 129(8), 231626. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:hodgsonk@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 723-1328Full Stanford Profile:Keith HodgsonAdmin ContactDebra FrankEmail:dfrank@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 725-0261 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
