Todd Martinez | Department of Chemistry Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Home Contact Us Giving Chemistry SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES & SCIENCES Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu About Chair's Welcome Message Overview History Contact Us Maps, Location & Parking Culture Jobs Research Vision, Mission & Scientific Aims Research Areas Centers & Affiliates Research Facilities & Service Labs Research Restart Academics Overview Summer Session Undergraduate Program Coterminal Master's Program PhD Program Postdocs Courses Student Organizations Chemical Education Chemistry Commencement People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Events Upcoming Events Past Events Department Seminars Lectureships Symposia Colloquia Student Hosted Seminars Professional Development Company Info Session Subscribe Inclusion Equity & Inclusion Strategic Plan Programs & Support Activities Learning Resources Outreach Alumni Engagement Community Outreach Corporate Partnerships Employment Recruiting Giving Resources Career Resources ChemWell Environmental Health & Lab Safety Emergency Action Plan Library Room Reservations Sapp Center Other Resources News Recent News Subscribe Past Newsletters People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Courtesy and Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Staff Graduate Students Postdocs Alumni In Memoriam Todd Martinez Todd MartinezDavid Mulvane Ehrsam and Edward Curtis Franklin Professor in Chemistry and Professor of Photon SciencePhysical ChemistryTheoretical ChemistryChemistry-Biology InterfaceThe Martinez GroupAboutTheoretical chemist Todd Martnez develops and applies new methods that predict and explain how atoms move in molecules. These methods are used both to design new molecules and to understand the behavior of those that already exist. His research group studies the response of molecules to light (photochemistry) and external force (mechanochemistry). Photochemistry is a critical part of human vision, single-molecule spectroscopy, harnessing solar energy (either to make fuels or electricity), and even organic synthesis. Mechanochemistry represents a novel scheme to promote unusual reactions and potentially to create self-healing materials that resist degradation. The underlying tools embody the full gamut of quantum mechanical effects governing molecules, from chemical bond breaking/formation to electron/proton transfer and electronic excited states.Professor Martnez was born in Amityville, New York, but spent most of his childhood in Central America and the Caribbean. His chemical curiosity benefitted tremendously from the relaxed safety standards in Central American chemical supply houses, giving him unfettered access to strong acids and bases. When he also became interested in computation, limited or nonexistent computer access forced him to write and debug computer programs on paper. Today, Prof. Martnez combines these interests by working toward theoretical and computational modeling and design of molecules. Martnez received his PhD in chemistry from UCLA in 1994. After postdoctoral study at UCLA and the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, he joined the faculty at the University of Illinois in 1996. In 2009, he joined the faculty at Stanford, where he is now the Ehrsam and Franklin Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Photon Science at SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory. He has received numerous awards for his contributions, including a MacArthur Fellowship (commonly known as the genius award). He is co-editor of Annual Reviews in Physical Chemistry, associate editor of The Journal of Chemical Physics, and an elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.Current research in the Martnez lab aims to make molecular modeling both predictive and routine. New approaches to interactive molecular simulation are being developed, in which users interact with a virtual-reality based molecular modeling kit that fully understands quantum mechanics. New techniques to discover heretofore unknown chemical reactions are being developed and tested, exploiting the many efficient methods that the Martnez group has introduced for solving quantum mechanical problems quickly, using a combination of physical/chemical insights and commodity videogaming hardware. For more details, please visit http://mtzweb.stanford.edu. AppointmentsProfessor, ChemistryProfessor, Photon Science DirectorateMember, Bio-XOther AppointmentsDiversity Liaison, Department of Chemistry, Stanford University (2009 - Present)Edward William and Jane Marr Gutgsell Chair in Chemistry, U. Illinois Urbana-Champaisn (2006 - 2008)Professor of Chemisty, U. Illinois Urbana-Champaign (1996 - 2009)Honors & AwardsElected Member, National Academy of Sciences (2019)Elected Member, International Academy of Quantum Molecular Sciences (2017)Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences (2011)National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellow, Department of Defense (2010)Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (2006)Fellow, American Physical Society (2005)MacArthur Fellow, MacArthur Foundation (2005)Special Creativity Extension, National Science Foundation (2004)Teacher-Scholar Award, Camille & Henry Dreyfus Foundation (2000)Beckman Young Investigator, Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation (1999)Boards, Advisory Committees, Professional OrganizationsChair, LCLS SLAC/Stanford Search Committee (2012 - Present)Member, Academic Computing and Information Services Committee, Stanford University (2012 - Present)Co-chair, Stanford Research Computing Facility Committee (2010 - Present)Member, Department of Energy Council on Chemical and Biochemical Sciences (2010 - Present)Chair, SLAC Midrange Computing Committee (2009 - 2009)Member, SLAC CIO Search Committee (2009 - 2009)Chair, American Chemical Society Theoretical Chemistry Subdivision (2008 - 2009)Advisory Board Member, Chemical Physics (2006 - Present)Advisory Board Member, Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics (2006 - 2011)Vice-Chair, American Chemical Society Theoretical Chemistry Subdivision (2006 - 2007)Professional EducationPostdoc, UCLA and Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Physical Chemistry (1996)PhD, UCLA, Physical Chemistry (1994)BS, Calvin College, Chemistry (1989) Featured Publications Parrish, R. M., & Martinez, T. J. (2019). Ab Initio Computation of Rotationally-Averaged Pump-Probe X-ray and Electron Diffraction Signals. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation. Curchod, B. F. E., & Martinez, T. J. (2018). Ab Initio Nonadiabatic Quantum Molecular Dynamics. CHEMICAL REVIEWS, 118(7), 330536. Kulik, H. J., Luehr, N., Ufimtsev, I. S., & Martinez, T. J. (2012). Ab Initio Quantum Chemistry for Protein Structures. JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY B, 116(41), 125019. Luehr, N., Jin, A. G. B., & Martinez, T. J. (2015). Ab lnitio Interactive Molecular Dynamics on Graphical Processing Units (GPUs). JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL THEORY AND COMPUTATION, 11(10), 45364544. Snyder, J. W., Hohenstein, E. G., Luehr, N., & Martinez, T. J. (2015). An atomic orbital-based formulation of analytical gradients and nonadiabatic coupling vector elements for the state-averaged complete active space self-consistent field method on graphical processing units. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 143(15). Song, C., & Martinez, T. J. (2016). Atomic orbital-based SOS-MP2 with tensor hypercontraction. I. GPU-based tensor construction and exploiting sparsity. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 144(17). Ufimtsev, I. S., Luehr, N., & Martinez, T. J. (2011). Charge Transfer and Polarization in Solvated Proteins from Ab Initio Molecular Dynamics. JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY LETTERS, 2(14), 17891793. Wang, L.-P., Titov, A., McGibbon, R., Liu, F., Pande, V. S., & Martinez, T. J. (2014). Discovering chemistry with an ab initio nanoreactor. NATURE CHEMISTRY, 6(12), 104448. Parrish, R. M., Hohenstein, E. G., Schunck, N. F., Sherrill, C. D., & Martinez, T. J. (2013). Exact Tensor Hypercontraction: A Universal Technique for the Resolution of Matrix Elements of Local Finite-Range N-Body Potentials in Many-Body Quantum Problems. PHYSICAL REVIEW LETTERS, 111(13). Glover, W. J., Mori, T., Schuurman, M. S., Boguslavskiy, A. E., Schalk, O., Stolow, A., & Martinez, T. J. (2018). Excited state non-adiabatic dynamics of the smallest polyene, trans 1,3-butadiene. II. Ab initio multiple spawning simulations. JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL PHYSICS, 148(16), 164303. See full Stanford Profile Contact Email:Todd.Martinez@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 736-8860Full Stanford Profile:Todd MartinezAdmin ContactMaggie YeungEmail:meiyee18@stanford.eduPhone:(650) 724-7306 Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Contact Us Mudd Chemistry Building333 Campus DriveStanford, CA 94305Phone:(650) 723-2501Campus Map Affiliated Programs CMAD ChEM-H SSRL Information For Undergraduates Ph.D. Students Prospective Ph.D. Students Postdocs Faculty Staff Giving to Chemistry Promote and support the Department of Chemistry. Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
