iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Michael A. Katell Michael A. Katell CV Ph.D. Candidate mkatell@uw.edu Mary Gates Hall 015 Website Specializations Ethics of Information and Technology Information Policy Privacy and Surveillance Biography I am a PhD candidate at the Information School focused on information and data ethics, and the philosophy of technology. I have a background in information technology, social justice, and the arts. My current research interests include examining the impact of information systems on marginalized communities and the expression of privilege and bias in the practice of information surveillance and capture. Education Certificate, Ethics, University of Washington, 2018 MS, Information Science, University of Washington Information School, 2017 MS, Information Management , University of Washington Information School, 2013 Awards Best Poster - iConference 2019, 2019-2019 Student Excellence in Information Management - University of Washington Information School, 2013 Consulting and Other Projects Columbia Legal Services, Seattle, Washington, 2014 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Policy versus Practice: Conceptions of Artificial Intelligence (2020) Proceedings of the 2020 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society - AIES Authors: P. M. Krafft, Margaret Young, Michael A. Katell, Karen Huang, Ghislain Bugingo Toolkit The Algorithmic Equity Toolkit (AEKit) (2020) Authors: Margaret Young, Michael A. Katell, Peaks Krafft Conference Paper Toward Situated Interventions for Algorithmic Equity]{Toward Situated Interventions for Algorithmic Equity: Lessons from the Field (2020) Proceedings of Machine Learning Research Authors: Michael A. Katell, Margaret Young, Bernease Herman, Dharma Dailey, Aaron Tam, Vivian Guetler, Corinne Binz, Daniella Raz, P. M. Krafft Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Adverse Detection: The Promise and Peril of Police Body-Worn Cameras (2018) Surveillance, Privacy, and Public Space, ISBN/ISSN: 978-1138709966 Authors: Michael A. Katell, Bert-Jaap Koops Editors: Bryce Clayton Newell, Tjerk Timan Conference Paper Algorithmic Profiling as Reputation (2018) Amsterdam Privacy Conference Author: Michael A. Katell Conference Paper Algorithmic Reputation and Information Equity (2018) ASIS&T Annual Meeting Author: Michael A. Katell Conference Paper A Fair Exchange: Exploring How Online Privacy is Valued (2016) 2016 49th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS), Page 1881-1890 Authors: Michael A. Katell, Sonali Mishra, Ligaya Aline Scaff Workshop Paper Reputational Justice: Interrogating Automated Hiring and Quantitative Reputation (2016) Work, Labor, and Automation Author: Michael A. Katell Conference Paper Do Privacy and Privilege Converge? Thoughts on the Coming Storm of Privilege-Based Privacy Affordance (2015) Amsterdam Privacy Conference Author: Michael A. Katell Book, Chapter in Scholarly Book-New Introduction: The Value of Privacy, Security, and Accountability (2015) Privacy, Security, and Accountability: Ethics, Policy, and Law, Page 1-17 Authors: Michael A. Katell, Adam Moore Conference Paper Remade to Measure: Applying Impact Measurement Theory to Non-Profit Organizations A Case Study (2015) HICSS - Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences Authors: Michael A. Katell, Hazel Taylor Workshop Paper The Personal Information Exchequer Rights and Restitution Engine (PIERRE) (2015) Critical Alternatives 2015 Author: Michael A. Katell Journal Article, Academic Journal Seeing the Whole Picture: Visualising Socio-Spatial Power through Augmented Reality Law, Innovation, and Technology Authors: Michael A. Katell, Koops Bert-Jaap, Francien Dechesne, Paulus Meessen Presentations Defining AI in Policy versus Practice (2020) CM Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Ethics, and Society (AIES) - New York, NY Toward Situated Interventions for Algorithmic Equity: Lessons from the Field (2020) ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (ACM FAT*) - Barcelona, Spain Algorithmic Privacy as Reputation (2018) 2018 Amsterdam Privacy Conference (APC 2018) - Amsterdam, The Netherlands Algorithmic Reputation and Information Equity (2018) Association for Information Science & Technology Annual Meeting - Vancouver, British Columbia Interrogating Automated Hiring and Quantitative Reputation (2017) "Work, Labor, and Automation" Workshop at Data & Society - New York, NY The Normative Force of Quantified Reputation (2017) 2017 Philosophy of Social Science Roundtable - Vancouver, BC, Canada Reputational Justice: Transparency and Equity in the Information Society (2016) PechaKucha Seattle, UW Intellectual House - Seattle, WA Reputational Justice: Transparency and Equity in the Information Society (2016) Talks on Technology Science and Topics in Privacy, Data Privacy Lab, Harvard University - Cambridge, MA Informational Privacy and Social Privilege: Discriminatory Data Practices in the Information Society (2015) Research Conversations - Seattle, Washington iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
