iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Mary Hotchkiss Mary Hotchkiss CV Adjunct Principal Lecturer hotchma@uw.edu William Gates Hall 369 Phone: 206-616-9333 Website | CV Specializations Information Policy Intellectual Property Law Librarianship Biography Professor Hotchkiss joined the full-time Law School faculty in 1999 to teach upper level legal research courses. She began teaching legal research and writing courses in 1991 as an affiliate instructor for both the Law School and the Information School. Professor Hotchkiss teaches advanced legal research, copyright and information policy, and employment law. Her research interests include examining technological impacts on research and litigation; federal legislative process and public policy; and federal information policy. Professor Hotchkiss received a B.A. in History from Duke University, an MSLS from The Catholic University of America, and both a JD and an LLM from The George Washington University School of Law. Her prior employment includes eight years at the U.S. Courts Library in Seattle, three years at the White House Law Library, and five years at The George Washington University Law School Library. She also clerked at and was associated with a D.C. law firm. A lifelong volunteer, Professor Hotchkiss is active in a variety of professional and community associations. Originally a native of the "other Washington", she now calls Seattle home. Education LLM, The George Washington University, 1985 JD, The George Washington University, 1983 MS, Library Science, The Catholic University of America, 1978 BA, History, Duke University, 1975 iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
