Faculty Affairs | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Page Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty Affairs Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity & Community Funding for Faculty Work Teaching Resources Ed Mignon Lecture Spencer G. Shaw Lecture Diversity Resources: COVID-19 Response & FAQ Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list Serving Our Faculty Welcome from the Associate Dean The mission of Faculty Affairs is to establish a coherent, respectful, diverse, and joyful intellectual and professional community for the iSchool faculty. A high quality of faculty life is the primary objective. We achieve this by working with faculty and school leadership to support faculty search and renewal, faculty orientation, the iSchool mentoring program, reappointment and promotion, and periodic review; and by adhering to community-drafted career advancement policies and procedures. We support the review of faculty policies, support the deployment of faculty-led initiatives, and have oversight for faculty data not managed by Research and Academics. We handle the details and foster community engagement so that our faculty can excel at our research, teaching, and service missions. Current Initiatives Faculty Renewal:See open faculty positionsat the lecturer, senior lecturer, assistant, associate, and professor ranks. Supporting faculty through the strategic plan:Read the documentationabout the vision for the school. Diversity Initiatives:We are working to build a more inclusive faculty. See some of our initiatives here. Ed Mignon Distinguished Lecture Each year, the Ed Mignon Distinguished Lecture in Information Science features a speaker on current events, policies, controversies, or issues in the information and technology fields. Our goal is to inspire original thinking and foster creativity among students, faculty and researchers at the Information School.Learn more and read about past lecturers. Faculty Renewal See our recent hires at the iSchool. Faculty Affairs Team Joseph T. Tennis, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs Faculty Human Resources Ai Nguyen, Director for Faculty Human Resources Jane Tang, Senior HR Assistant for Faculty, Faculty Administrative Services Galen Guffy, Administrative Support Manager Austin Williams, Administrative Coordinator Faculty Development and Governance Support Alicia Supernavage, Administrative Specialist Resources: COVID-19 Response & FAQ Advising & Support Capstone Projects Upcoming Info Sessions Videos: Alumni at Work Admissions mailing list News $16 million grant makes TASCHA research more nimble Wednesday, December 9, 2020 A major grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has transformed the iSchools Technology & Social Change (TASCHA) research group, allowing its work to make immediate impacts on the library field. As the Gates Foundation... Read more Research team studies how libraries are coping with COVID-19 Wednesday, December 9, 2020 Libraries are a vital part of communities a place to learn and connect with other people. And while libraries have long been more than the physical resources within their walls, that fact has been clearer than ever since the COVID-19... Read more Events Dec 15 2:00-4:00PM Dissertation Proposal Defense - Stephanie Ballard Online Dec 15 2:00-6:00PM Transfer Student Preview Day Dec 15 3:00-4:00PM MSIM Career Resources Presentation Online Dec 16 6:00-7:00PM MLIS Prospective Student Information Session Online iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
