iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Kirsten Foot Kirsten Foot CV Adjunct Professor kfoot@uw.edu Communications Building Phone: 206-543-2660 Website Biography Kirsten Foot, Professor of Communication and adjunct faculty in the Information School, is interested in several aspects of the relationship between information and communication technologies, organizing processes, and society. Prior to joining the faculty at the U. of Washington, she held a postdoctoral research appointment at the U. of Pennsylvanias Annenberg Public Policy Center, and a Fulbright fellowship at the U. of Helsinkis Center for Research on Activity, Development, and Learning. She has researched the production of electoral web spheres in the U.S. and around the world, the development of a conflict monitoring network in the Commonwealth of Independent States, and online networks in the fair trade movements in the U.S. and the UK. In her current research, she brings her expertise on organizing processes and digital technologies to bear in studying worldwide efforts to combat human trafficking, and multi-sector collaboration in the anti-human trafficking movement in the U.S. She is also interested in cultural-historical activity theory and other practice-based theories of technology, and in this vein she co-edits the Acting With Technology Series at the MIT Press. Dr. Foot is the lead author of the award-winning book Web Campaigning (MIT Press, 2006), and coeditor of The Internet and National Elections: A Comparative Study of Web Campaigning (Routledge, 2007), and Media Technologies: Essays on Communication, Media, and Society (MIT Press, 2014). An overview and the intro chapter for Media Technologies can be found here. Her work has been published in a wide array of journals within the field of communication and beyond. She teaches courses on topics such as theories of technology and society, ICTs and politics, digital media concepts, internet research methods, and human trafficking. Dr. Foots most recent book, Collaborating Against Human Trafficking: Cross-Sector Challenges and Practices (Rowman & Littlefield, 2015), suggests constructive paths through common tensions between organizations to build more robust and sustainable collaborative efforts. Education Ph D, Communication, University of California, San Diego, 1999 MA, Intercultural Studies, Wheaton College Graduate School, 1990 BS, Communication Studies, Northwestern University, 1989 Publications and Contributions Conference Paper Toward a Research Agenda on Technology Pushback: visual content analysis (2014) CHI 2014 Notes Authors: Margaret Young, Kirsten Foot, Ricardo Gomez, Stacey Morrison, Rose Paquet Kinsley, Paul Weiss iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
