Research Updates | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Research Updates Dec. 7, 2020 Alexis Hinikerhas received a 165,000 CHF ($182,000 USD) award from theJacobs Foundation Research Fellowship ProgramforDesigning Digital Assistants for Prosocial Communication. The research fellowship program is open to early- and mid-career researchers from all scholarly... Read more Nov. 23, 2020 Katie Davisand Howard Gardner (Harvard) co-authored aSeattle Timesop-ed piece titled, The app generation meets the pandemic. The article highlighted research conducted byDavis,Caroline Pitt, and Ari Hock (UW COE). Sandy Littletreeserved as one of... Read more Nov. 6, 2020 Ricardo Gomez is one of the faculty leaders for the UW Center for Human Rights new program: Immigrant Rights Observatory. The Observatory uses public records research and community partnerships to monitor implementation of and compliance with state laws protecting immigrant rights. Recent work by... Read more Oct. 30, 2020 Michelle H. Martins post about The Camping Trip by Jennifer K. Mann was published on Calling Caldecott, the blog of The Horn Book Magazine. Marika Cifor gave an invited talk titled An Archival Cure: Remedy, Care, and Curation of HIV-Positive Artists' Records with the Visual AIDS Archive... Read more Oct. 26, 2020 Michelle H. Martins Read-a-Rama program received a $25,000 grant from the Community Foundation of Snohomish County to train Sno-Isle Librarians and teachers in the surrounding schools on implementing Camp Read-a-Rama in their libraries and schools. Anna Lauren Hoffmann's work was cited in the... Read more Oct. 19, 2020 Tanu Mitra, in collaboration with PesaCheck, a fact-checking organization in East Africa, has been awarded a Fact-Checking Innovation Initiative grant by the Poynter Institute for Auditing Social Media for Misinformation. The total award amount is $99,707, of which $54,707 will come to the... Read more Oct. 15, 2020 Beginning in 2021, J. Elizabeth Mills and Dr. Kathleen Campana (Kent State) will conduct an evaluation of the Free Library of Philadelphias Read, Baby, Read initiative. Read, Baby, Read aims to increase the availability of early education for families in Philadelphias low-income communities... Read more Oct. 5, 2020 Nicole Kuhn will present Developing Indigenous Community-Based Participatory Design Methods to Understand Tribal Communities Use of Information Technologies for Addressing Critical Health Needs as part of the American Indian & Indigenous Studies (AIIS) Scholars Program showcase on... Read more Sept. 29, 2020 Jacob O. Wobbrock received funding from the Google Award for Inclusion Research program in the amount of $60K for The Ability-Based Design Mobile Toolkit: Enabling Accessible Mobile Interactions through Advanced Sensing and Modeling. Karen Fisher and Yacine Ghamri-Doudane (University of La... Read more Sept. 18, 2020 Amanda Menking has exciting news to share: "Multiples Over Models: Interrogating the Past and Collectively Reimagining the Future of Menstrual Sensemaking, a paper co-authored with Sarah E. Fox (Carnegie Mellon University), Jordan Eschler (Northwestern University), and Uba Backonja (UW... Read more Sept. 14, 2020 Clarita Lefthand-Begay, Maya Magarati (UW Social Work), and Terri Parr (Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians) received a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) award for A Holistic Environmental Health Approach to Promoting Health, Equity, and Water Security in One Alaskan Native Village. The... Read more Sept. 8, 2020 Amy J. Ko (Principal Investigator) and Anne Beitlers (UW College of Education), in partnership with the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, and Shoreline and Highline school districts, were awarded a National Science Foundation (NSF) Computer and Network Systems (CNS) grant... Read more Aug. 26, 2020 Jin Ha Lee and Nicole Santero participated on a panel for Rhizome Connect titled, Researching BTS Through Data & Information Science. Chirag Shah, Shawon Sarkar, and Jiqun Liu (Rutgers University) presented a paper at the ACM CHIIR 2020 virtual conference last week: Identifying and... Read more Aug. 14, 2020 Jevin West and Carl Bergstroms new book, Calling Bullshit: The Art of Skepticism in a Data-Driven World, was published by Penguin Random House this week. Their book has been reviewed by Wired Magazine and The Economist. Jevin West and Carl Bergstrom also co-authored an op-ed piece... Read more Aug. 1, 2020 UW Continuum College created an online toolbox for effective online teaching, based on and illustrated by the practice of Ricardo Gomez in LIS 570: Research, Assessment and Design. Each of the Seven Principles for Effective Teaching includes an explanation and examples drawn from his teaching... Read more News $16 million grant makes TASCHA research more nimble Wednesday, December 9, 2020 A major grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has transformed the iSchools Technology & Social Change (TASCHA) research group, allowing its work to make immediate impacts on the library field. As the Gates Foundation... Read more Research team studies how libraries are coping with COVID-19 Wednesday, December 9, 2020 Libraries are a vital part of communities a place to learn and connect with other people. And while libraries have long been more than the physical resources within their walls, that fact has been clearer than ever since the COVID-19... Read more Events Dec 15 2:00-6:00PM Transfer Student Preview Day Dec 15 2:00-4:00PM Dissertation Proposal Defense - Stephanie Ballard Online Dec 15 3:00-4:00PM MSIM Career Resources Presentation Online Dec 16 6:00-7:00PM MLIS Prospective Student Information Session Online iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
