iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Betsy Wilson Betsy Wilson CV Affiliate Professor betsyw@uw.edu Allen Library 482 Phone: 206-543-1763 Website | CV Biography Lizabeth (Betsy) Wilson is the Vice Provost for Digital Initiatives and Dean of University Libraries at the University of Washington in Seattle, Bothell, and Tacoma. The University Libraries ranks among the largest and most innovative academic libraries in the United States with collections of more than 9 million volumes. From 1992 through 2000, she was the Associate Director of Libraries for Research and Instructional Services at the University of Washington. Prior to joining the University of Washington in 1992, she was the Assistant Director of Libraries for Undergraduate and Instructional Services at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Betsy Wilson has published and presented widely on information literacy, teaching, learning, and technology; cross-sector collaborations; art historiography; global libraries; and assessment and evaluation. She has held numerous leadership positions in the American Library Association (ALA) and the Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL), including chair of the ACRL Instruction Section, member of ALA Council, and ACRL President (2000-2001). She helped establish the ACRL Institute for Information Literacy which is "dedicated to playing a leadership role in assisting individuals and institutions in integrating information literacy throughout the educational process." She is a past member of the Board of Trustees of OCLC, a nonprofit, membership organization serving over 55,000 libraries and knowledge institutions worldwide and dedicated to the public purposes of furthering access to the world's information and reducing information costs. She served as Board Chair from 2003-2007, during which time she led the effort to bring OCLC and the Regional Libraries Group (RLG) together to deliver compelling value and services to research universities. She is the immediate past chair of the Orbis Cascade Alliance, a regional consortium of 37 academic libraries in the Pacific Northwest that leverages their collective collections and purchasing power to expand information access for scholarship, research, and learning. She currently is a member of the Council on Library and Information Resources (CLIR) Board, and the Governing Board of the HathiTrust, and has served on the Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Board, the Digital Library Federation (DLF) Executive Committee, and as Chair of the Greater Western Library Alliance (GWLA). She is the recipient of the Hugh C. Atkinson Memorial Award, Miriam Dudley Instruction Librarian Award, the Margaret E. Monroe Award, the Distinguished Alumnus Award from University of Illinois' Graduate School of Library and Information Science, and the ACRL Academic/Research Librarian of the Year. With her UWired colleagues, she received the inaugural EDUCAUSE Award for Systemic Progress in Teaching and Learning. Her library was selected as the 2004 ACRL Excellence in Academic Libraries Award recipient. She holds an M.L.S. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a B.A. from Northwestern University. Education MS, Library Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1978 BA, Art History and German, Northwestern University, 1977 iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
