iSchool Directory | Information School | University of Washington Jump to Main Content Jump to Top Navigation Jump to Footer Navigation UW COVID-19 Facts & Resources iSchool Student FAQ University of Washington University of Washington Information School Programs Informatics Undergraduate major and minor MLIS Master of Library and Information Science MSIM Master of Science in Information Management Ph.D. Doctorate in Information Science More Options Professional development and continuing education Research Research Updates The latest news from our faculty and research staff Research Areas Core topics of iSchool research Research Groups Hubs for innovative scholarship and research Grants & Awards Recent funding for iSchool research projects News & Events News The latest stories from our community Events What's happening on campus and beyond Podcast Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes People Directory Find iSchool faculty, staff and students Alumni Find out what our alumni are doing now Advising & Support Find help from our team of student advisors Faculty Affairs Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty Diversity We are committed to building an inclusive community The School About Us The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work Employers & Partners How to collaborate with faculty and students Capstone Students work with organizations to solve information problems Support the iSchool Every gift makes a difference to students iSchool IT Find help and answers to technology questions Customize Your Experience Would you like to see information for Future Students, Current Students, Faculty & Staff, or Everyone? Audience Tools Search Menu Faculty > Joe Bak-Coleman Joe Bak-Coleman CV Postdoctoral Scholar joebak@uw.edu Bloedel Hall 089B Specializations Collective Behaviour Complexity Science Behavioural Ecology Research Areas Information and Society Sociotechnical Information Systems Biography Dr. Joe Bak-Coleman is a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Washington Center for an Informed Public. His research focuses on how the actions and interactions of group members give rise to broader patterns of collective action. He is particularly interested in understanding how communication technology alters collective decision-making and the spread of information. To ask these questions, he uses a combination of online experiments, observational data and mathematical modelling. Joe Bak-Coleman earned his Ph.D. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Princeton University. Prior to working on human collective behaviour, he studied the behaviour of animal groups zebra herds to fish schools. Education Ph D, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, 2021 MA, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, 2016 MS, Biology, Bowling Green State University, 2014 BS, Neuroscience, Bowling Green State University, 2011 Awards Bioinformatics Scholarship - Choose Ohio First for Bioinformatics, 2009-2011 Summer Research Fellowship - Center for Undergraduate Research and Scholarship, 2011 Travel Award - Flow Sensing in Air and Water, 2011 Summer Research Fellowship - Science, Engineering, Technology Gateway Ohio, 2010 Publications and Contributions Journal Article, Academic Journal Information gerrymandering in social networks skews collective decision-making (2019) Nature: News & Views, Volume 573, Page 40-41 Authors: Carl T. Bergstrom, Joseph Bak-Coleman Journal Article, Academic Journal Structural encoding of perceived risk in fish schools (2019) PNAS Authors: M. Sosna, C. Twomey, Joseph Bak-Coleman, W. Poel, B. Daniels, P. Romanczuk, I. Couzin Journal Article, Academic Journal Counteracting estimation bias and social in influence to improve the wisdom of crowds (2018) Journal of the Royal Society, Interface , Volume 15 Authors: A. Kao, A. Berdahl, A. Hartnett, Joseph Bak-Coleman, M. Lutz, C. Ioannou, X. Giam, I. Couzin Magazine/Trade Publication The ignorance of the crowd (2017) Scientic American Author: Joseph Bak-Coleman Magazine/Trade Publication Why did Donald Trump get elected? Ask the bees (2016) Wired Author: Joseph Bak-Coleman Journal Article, Academic Journal Going with, then against the flow: Evidence against the optomotor hypothesis of fish rheotaxis (2015) Animal Behaviour, Volume 107 Authors: Joseph Bak-Coleman, D. Smith, S. Coombs Journal Article, Academic Journal Rheotaxis performance increases with group size in a coupled phase model with sensory noise (2015) European Physical Journal: Special Topics, Volume 224 Authors: A. Chicoli, Joseph Bak-Coleman, S. Coombs, D. A. Paley, Journal Article, Academic Journal The lateral line is necessary for blind cavesh rheotaxis in non-uniform flow (2015) Journal of Experimental Biology, Volume 218 Authors: M. Kulpa, Joseph Bak-Coleman, S. Coombs Journal Article, Academic Journal Sedentary behavior as a factor in determining lateral line contributions to rheotaxis (2014) Journal of Experimental Biology, Volume 217 Authors: Joseph Bak-Coleman, S. Coombs Journal Article, Academic Journal The effects of flow on schooling Devario aequipinnatus: school structure, startle response and information transmission (2014) Journal of fish Biology Authors: A. Chicoli, S. Butail, Y Lun, Joseph Bak-Coleman, S. Coombs, D. Paley Journal Article, Academic Journal The spatiotemporal dynamics of rheotactic behavior depends on flow speed and available sensory information (2013) The Journal of experimental biology, Issue 216 Authors: Joseph Bak-Coleman, A. Court, D. Paley, S. Coombs Journal Article, Academic Journal Energy savings in freely swimming fish Nature Communications Authors: L. Liang, M. Nagy, J. Graving, Joseph Bak-Coleman, J. Xie, I. Couzin Presentations Collective Folly on Politically Polarized Social Networks (2018) Integrated Behavioral Research Group (Princeton University) - Princeton, NJ Going with the flow: How do fish know which way is upstream? (2016) Integrated Behavioral Research Group (Princeton University) - Princeton, NJ The spatiotemporal dynamics of rheotaxis in stream-dwelling fish under different flow and sensory conditions (2012) International Congress of Neuroethology - College Park, MD iSchools.org Jobs Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Logo & Brand Guidelines Twitter Facebook Youtube LinkedIn Make a Gift iSchools.org 2020 UW Information School Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370 Seattle, WA 98195-2840 United States of America 206-685-9937 Close Close menu Toolkit Customize Your Experience Change audience type Search: All People Programs Informatics MLIS MSIM Ph.D. More Options Research Research Updates Research Areas Research Groups Grants & Awards News & Events News Events Podcast People Directory Alumni Advising & Support Faculty Affairs Diversity The School About Us Employers & Partners Capstone Support the iSchool iSchool IT toolkit COVID-19 Response Site iSchool Intranet MyUW Outlook Web App Office 365 Workday UW Time Schedule UW Academic Calendar iSchool Slack Knowledge Base Activity Insight Azure Dev Tools Online Learning Help Zoom Streaming Support Canvas LMS Qualtrics Emergency Info Site Login Enter search text Loading Results...Loading search results, please wait. Highlights Full Results See Full Results See Full Directory Customize Your Experience Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Everyone Close
