Agarwal, Raghu | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Agarwal, RaghuSan Jos State University Site Navigation SJSU Home>People>Agarwal, Raghu Agarwal, Raghu one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Courses Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Education MS and Ph.D. in Mechnical Engineering Texas A&M University, College Station, TX BSME in Mechanical Engineering Michigan Technological University, Houghton, ME Raghu Agarwal is a professor and graduate program coordinator in the Mechanical Engineering Department. Research Interests: Finite Element Analysis, Computer Aided Design, Machine Design He has taught and contributed to the following courses: Graduate Courses: ME230 Advanced Mechanical Engineering Analysis, restructured an existing course and introduced as ME230 Designed to supplement and enrich students with advanced mathematical methods in treating problems selected from various areas of mechanical engineering. Topics discussed will include Fourier series, special functions, solutions to partial differential equations and numerical methods. ME265 Computer Aided Design in Mechanical Engineering, introduced Pro/E as a laboratory component in the course Integrated approach to CAD including: overview of CAD, numerical techniques for CAD, computer graphics and design, principles and management of design database systems, finite element analysis and CAD, design optimization, computer-aided linkage design and integrated CAD systems. Prerequisite: BSME or Instructor Consent. ME260 Advanced Strength and Stress, developed and introduced the course Introduction to stress analysis techniques, including advanced strength of materials, energy methods and theory of elasticity. Elastic-plastic stresses, creep, fatigue, fracture mechanics, failure analysis. ME273 Finite Element Analysis, completely revised and updated. Introduction into various finite element methods for developing stiffness equation. Truss, beam, 2-D, 3-D and axisymmetric elements. Applications and case studies. Undergraduate Courses: ME160 Introduction to Finite Element Analysis, developed and introduced this course Matrix algebra, interpolation functions. Deformation and stress analysis, using truss, beam, plate and axisymmetric elements. ME165 Computer Aided Design, developed and introduced the course Theory and application of CAD. 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional modeling, commercial CAD software. Application to finite element analysis. ME130 Applied Engineering Analysis, developed and introduced the course. Analytic models for physical systems in mechanical engineering. Practical interpretations of analytical solutions. Introduction to linear algebra and statistics. ME101 Dynamics, developing this course into a gateway course for ME, as well as developing a workshop for ME101 Vector mechanics. Two and three dimensional motion of particles and rigid bodies. Force, energy and momentum principles. Additionally, Dr. Agarwal is the Director of the ME Computer lab, Advisor of the Pi Tau Sigma Honor Society and has been the author/co-author of over 20 publications in referred journals, conferences proceedings and reports. Links SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 12, 2020
