Dr. Raymond K. Yee | Mechanical Engineering | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. SJSU Homepage Mechanical EngineeringSan Jos State UniversityCollege of Engineering Site Navigation About Us Message from the Chair AboutME Mission Distinguished Alumni News Archives Undergraduate BSME Senior Project Available Senior Projects for Fall 2020 Graduate Prospective Students Current Students Research and Laboratories Faculty Research Projects Laboratories Faculty and Staff Faculty Part-time Faculty Staff Student Resources Alumni Connection BSME Course Catalog Change of Major CPT/OPT Resources Department Scholarships Faculty Office Hours Forms Job Opportunities Makerspace ME Student Employees MSME Course Catalog Other Opportunities Remote Computer Lab Access Software Downloads Student Clubs Syllabi Tutoring Undergraduate Advising Alumni SJSU Home>Mechanical Engineering>Faculty and Staff>Faculty>Dr. Raymond K. Yee Dr. Raymond K. Yee one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to Faculty Research Areas Grants & Awards Publications Yee Courses Taught Research Grants/Awards Publications Raymond K. Yee, Ph.D., P.E. Associate Dean of Engineering Extended Studies,Professor of Mechanical EngineeringCollege of EngineeringSan Jose State UniversityOne Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192-0205Office: E491OfficeHours: Check with ME Dept websiteOffice Phone: 408-924-3935 Email:raymond.yee@sjsu.edu Biography Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA M.S. Mechanical Engineering University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA B.S. Mechanical Engineering Cal Poly State University, San Luis Obispo, CA Professor Yee received his Bachelor of Science degree with Highest Honors in Mechanical Engineering from Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo, CA, Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley and earned his Ph.D. degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley in 1990. He is also a Registered Professional Mechanical Engineer in the State of California. His areas of interest in research and teaching include: Finite element method, mechanical design, mechanical behavior of materials, fracture mechanics, additive manufacturing, and product design & development. He is the Director of the Product Design Lab. Professor Yee worked for several years as a Member of the Technical Staff at AT&T Bell Labs in Naperville, Illinois. Professor Yee also worked as a consulting engineer in industry (at Anamet Laboratory in Hayward, CA and Aptech Engineering Services in Sunnyvale, CA). From 1997 to 2000, he was appointed as Professor for the Engineering Transfer Program at Laney College in Oakland, CA where he developed and taught an undergraduate engineering mechanics course and advised students. From 2000 to 2006, he was an Associate Professor in the Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Department at San Jose State University. Dr. Yee served as the Associate Chair in the Department from 2006-2010 and again from 2017-2020, he served as the ABET Coordinator from 2010 to 2011, ME Program Director from 2012 to 2013.Professor Yee served as the Chair of the Undergraduate Studies Committee from 2013-2014. During his sabbatical leave from July to December 2016, Dr. Yee was the visiting researcher at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, CA performing R&D to upgrade the Advanced Light Source System. Dr. Yee has served as an expert witness in litigation trial. Currently, Dr. Yee is a Full Professor of Mechanical Engineering and the Associate Dean of Engineering Extended Studies at San Jose State University. Professor Yee was named inWho's Who in Science & Engineeringin 1994 & 2006,Who's Who inAmericain 2006, andWho's Who AmongAmerica's Teachersin 2005. From1996 to 2009, he had served as a Committee Member in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Post Construction Flaw Evaluation Committee (has been re-named as the ASME/API Joint Fitness-for-Service Standard Committee in 2002) at the national level to develop a joint ASME/API StandardFitness-for-Services and Flaw Evaluation Methodologiesfor pressure equipment in all industries worldwide. He is a member of the Tau Beta Pi National Engineering Honor Society. Professor Yee is also a member of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). At San Jose State University, Professor Yee was the faculty advisor for the Association for Facilities Engineering (AFE) Society (Student Chapter). Currently, he is serving as the faculty advisor for the Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society in the College of Engineering. Dr. Yee was named as the "Professor of the Year" in 2001, 2002, and again in 2009 in recognition of excellence in teaching and outstanding service to the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) Department by the Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honor Society at San Jose State University. Professor Yee is the recipient of the College of Engineering Applied Materials Award for Excellence in Teaching in 2004. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, Professor Yee received the San Jose State University Provost's Assessment Awards recognizing his commitment to Engineering Program Excellence through Student Learning SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Dec 11, 2020
