Rhee, Jinny | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Rhee, JinnySan Jos State University Site Navigation Associate Deanship Courses Research Publications/Grants SJSU Home>People>Rhee, Jinny Rhee, Jinny one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Associate Dean,College of Engineering Email Preferred: jinny.rhee@sjsu.edu Telephone Preferred: (408) 924-3800 Alternate: (408) 924-3876 Twitter Jinny Rhee @ADRheeSJSU Fax (408) 924-3818 Office ENG Building, 493 Bio Dr. Jinny Rhee was appointed the Associate Dean of the Charles W. Davidson College of Engineering at SJSU in June 2014. She oversees all aspects of the undergraduate programs in the college, and works in close collaboration with the Associate Dean of Graduate Studies and the Associate Dean of Research, as well as the Dean and upper administration. You can follow her on Twitter (Jinny Rhee @ADRheeSJSU) to receive updates on her projects and on the dean's office and university's initiatives. More detail, such as committee meeting minutes and other data can be found on her COE AD Updates page (note: you must have an SJSU One account to view this site.) From 2013-2014,Dr. Rhee was the Director of Assessment and Chair of the Program Planning Committee of the Academic Senate at SJSU. In these positions, she worked closely with the Associate Vice Presidents of Undergraduate Studies, Graduate and Extended Studies, Institutional Effectiveness and Analytics, as well as the Provost and Deputy Provost. The Director of Assessment is responsible for the annual assessment of all degree programs on campus, and the Chair of Program Planning directs review of departments typically on a five-year cycle. Both processes are required by the California State University system and for accreditation by WASC (Western Association of Schools and Colleges). Jinny received promotion to full professor in the Mechanical Engineering Department in 2013, and tenure and promotion to Associate Professor in 2008. She normally teaches courses in the thermal and fluid sciences area of mechanical engineering, as well as engineering mathematics and senior design project. Her interests include renewable energy, thermal management, and multidisciplinary education for engineers and all students. She is also the Director of the newly established Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Laboratory at SJSU, and the faculty advisor for the SJSU student chapter of IEEE-CPMT (Institute for Electrical Engineering and Electronics - Components, Packaging, and Manufacturing Technologies). Dr. Rhee received her B.S. (1989), M.S. (1990), and Ph.D. (1995) degrees, all in mechanical engineering, from Stanford University. She joined SJSU in 2002. SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 12, 2020
