Okamoto, Nicole | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Okamoto, NicoleSan Jos State University Site Navigation Courses ME 115 Thermal Engineering Lab ME 146 Thermal Management of Electronics Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Center for Thermal Management Research SJSU Home>People>Okamoto, Nicole Okamoto, Nicole one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Courses Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Electronics Cooling Laboratory Professor and Chair, Mechanical Engineering Email Preferred: nicole.okamoto@sjsu.edu Telephone Preferred: (408) 924-4054 but email is preferred Office Hours Fall 2020: Mon 9-10, Wed 2-3, Thu 10-11https://sjsu.zoom.us/my/nokamoto Note that Dr. Okamoto is not an academic advisor this fall. If you wish to complete your regular BSME advising, please sign up for an appointment via Spartan Connect. Education Doctor of Philosophy, Univ Of Illinois Urbana Campus, 1999 Bio Nicole graduated from Calvin College in Grand Rapids, MI, in 1993 with a BS. She continued on at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where she worked on both an MSME and Ph.D. in mechanical engineering under the advisement of Dr. Tony Jacobi. Her Ph.D. thesis was entitled Flow, Heat Transfer, and Pressure-Drop Interactions in Louvered-Fin Arrays. This work involved analyzing local convective heat transfer in low-Reynolds number flow and how the heat transfer behavior is affected by the fluid dynamics throughout the array. During her years at the University of Illinois, she worked as a research assistant at the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Center, a joint National Science Foundation and Industry collaborative center.Upon completion of her dissertation, in January 1999 Nicole began to teach atBaylor Universityin Waco, Texas, where she taught Thermodynamics, Advanced Thermodynamics, Heat Transfer, Introduction to Engineering, and Introduction to Engineering Fundamentals and learned to enjoy barbeque and hot weather. In August 2001 she moved toSan Jose State Universitywhere she is currently teaching classes in the thermal sciences, advising senior design teams and masters students, doing research in modeling of thermal systems and the cooling of electronics, and enjoying the great weather. She is married to Glenn Okamoto, and they have two young daughters, Erin and Evelyn. Links Nicole Okamoto is a director of the Center for Thermal Management Research. For information about the off-campus MSME program at Lockheed Martin or other off-site MS programs,visit the Graduate and Extended Studies website. SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Aug 21, 2020
