Dr. Fred Barez | Mechanical Engineering | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. SJSU Homepage Mechanical EngineeringSan Jos State UniversityCollege of Engineering Site Navigation About Us Message from the Chair AboutME Mission Distinguished Alumni News Archives Undergraduate BSME Senior Project Available Senior Projects for Fall 2020 Graduate Prospective Students Current Students Research and Laboratories Faculty Research Projects Laboratories Faculty and Staff Faculty Part-time Faculty Staff Student Resources Alumni Connection BSME Course Catalog Change of Major CPT/OPT Resources Department Scholarships Faculty Office Hours Forms Job Opportunities Makerspace ME Student Employees MSME Course Catalog Other Opportunities Remote Computer Lab Access Software Downloads Student Clubs Syllabi Tutoring Undergraduate Advising Alumni SJSU Home>Mechanical Engineering>Faculty and Staff>Faculty>Dr. Fred Barez Dr. Fred Barez one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to Faculty ME 295A/B & ME 299 ME 147 Dr. Raymond Yee DR. FRED BAREZ, PROFESSOR Department of Mechanical & Aerospace EngineeringSan Jos State UniversityOne Washington SquareSan Jos, California 95192-0087 Office: Engineering 310HTelephone: (408) 924-4298Fax: (408) 924-3995E-mail: fred.barez@sjsu.edu Degrees: 1973 B.S., Michigan Technological University 1974 M.S., University of California, Berkeley 1977 Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley Professor Barez specializes in dynamics and controls. His current research interest lies in the design of electronic packaging and storage systems for computers. He has extensive experience in the latter systems. He is also developing new research capabilities in forefront technologies such as high vacuum systems, and micro- miniaturization and machining. He teaches courses in dynamics, vibrations, control systems, electronics packaging, high vacuum systems engineering and semi-conductor manufacturing process and equipment, disk drive mechanics and magnetic recording Energy Efficient and Smart Home LaboratoryDr. Barez is involved in ongoing research in energy efficient and smart home laboratory. It is state-of-the-art research and education capabilities to provide students with relevant experience and skills to enter the workforce for the emerging and growing industries. For more information please see the brochure Hybrid & Electric Vehicle Technology LaboratoryThe Hybrid and Electric Vehicle Technology Laboratory is developed to provide students with state of the art knowledge and education in preparation to enter the workforce for this growing industry. This Laboratory is established to provide research opportunities in the following areas of battery studies, charging stations, on-board electronics and navigation, and the overall vehicle drive train performance. For more information please see the Hybrid & Electric Vehicle Technology Laboratory brochure. Hybrid and Electric Vehicle Technology Professional Development Course for Summer 2013 onlyThis short course covers the key topics in hybrid & electric vehicles including power trains, controls, battery management, motor and power electronics. Attendees will receive an overview of the critical technologies and components used in modern electric and hybrid vehicles and will gain hands-on experience through demonstrations, active participation and data measurement. Please see course flyer for more information you may register online, by mail, fax or in person. Course FlyerOnline Registration to Course Hybrid Electric Vehicle Technology Brochure Courses Taught in Spring 2013 ME 15 - Empower MAE StudentsEmpower MAE students to stay on course towards achieving career goals as engineers. Provide tools and opportunities to guide students towards career development, community and service involvement, technology and entrepreneurship. Expose these students to career opportunities through technical seminars, outreach technical and community related projects, and tours. ME 145 - Electronic Packaging and DesignThis course provides an introduction to the fundamental principles of electronic packaging, materials, thermal management, shock and vibrations, EMI/RFI/ESD, fatique, reliability, and standardized test procedures. Simple design to insure product rules and guidelines are presented. ME 147 - Dynamic Systems Vibration and ControlMathematical representation of dynamic systems. Damped and undamped free and forced vibrations for single and multiple degree of freedom systems. Vibration control and isolation. Dynamic analysis of control systems. Transient response, frequency response and the stability criteria. State-variables approach. Feedback and feedforward compensation. Emphasis on engineering problems involving analysis and design. Prerequisite: ME 130. ME 295 A/B, ME 299 (SJSU)Advanced individual work in Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, including but not limited to research, design, development, and simulation studies. Write a detailed engineering report and make a comprehensive presentation. (Prereq: Admission to Candidacy for Master's Degree in Mechanical Engineering; written proposal approved by Instructor and Graduate Advisor).Developed and Courses Taught ME 15ME 101ME 111ME 195BME 295A/BME 299 SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Feb 26, 2020
