Faculty Research Interests - Dept. of Statistics, Texas A&M University Rss Email Tweet facebook Calendar Maps Directory Contact Us Show menu Home Research Research Faculty Research Interests Undergraduate Overview Bachelor of Science in Statistics BS + MS in Statistics Minor in Statistics Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Opportunities Undergraduate Research Hullabaloo U Statistics Help Sessions Questions and Contact Graduate Overview MS in Statistics Degree Statistics MS Admissions Ph.D. in Statistics Degree Statistics PhD Admissions Graduate Courses MS Statistics (Online) People Events Current Week Current Month Colloquium and Seminar Schedule About Awards and Prizes News New Faculty Members History Giving Statistical Collaboration Center Contact Us Statistics Graduate Student Association SETCASA Poster Sessions Statistics Former Student Network Hiring Faculty Research Interests Derya Akleman Time series, stochastic processes, risk analysis, artificial intelligence, econometrics Anirban Bhattacharya Factor models, Gaussian process, high-dimensional data, large contingency tables Raymond Carroll My main general methods currently are in developing statistical methods within the frameworks of semiparametric and functional regression, understanding the structure of variability, and in latent variables especially as they arise in the case that important variables are measured with error and subject to excess zeros. My main application interest lies in problems of nutrition and physical activity, both at the molecular level and in the individual level. This has led me recently to considering problems of gene-environment interactions (where nutrition is the environment) and their effect on cancer, understanding the nature of dietary intake patterns in humans and the effect of those patterns on a host of diseases, and most recently, whether increasing physical activity increases the mean and decreases the variance of sleep efficiency Willa Chen Long memory time series, econometrics Daren Cline My research interests fall under the general heading applied probability and stochastic processes. Put simply, I like to study the probabilistic structure and properties of processes that statisticians and others want to observe and analyze. For example, nonlinear time series models are being applied to many observed times series, using statistical methods that assume some type of stability my work looked at how one can verify such stability for specific models. More recently, I and colleagues from computer science are investigating properties of dynamic random networks with an interest in optimizing some of those properties. I am also interested in questions of real analysis that are related to or devolve from statistical problems. This has included looking at the distributions of heavy-tailed random variables, which is relevant for risk theory and extreme values of data, and at the relationship between discontinuous functions and their Fourier transforms, which was of interest for function estimation Shelby Cummings Statistics education and applications to epidemiology/health care data Alan Dabney Microarrays, bioinformatics, classification methods, statistical education Tanya Garcia My research involves the development of semiparametric and nonparametric methods to address challenges in neuroscience, microbiology and other biomedical fields, as well as to advance the statistical theory underlying those methods Irina Gaynanova High-dimensional data analysis, machine learning, multivariate analysis, computational statistics, statistical methods for analyzing biological data Jeffrey Hart My interests include nonparametric function estimation, hypothesis testing in complex settings, time series analysis and Bayesian methods. Recently I have focused attention on inference problems involving a large number of small data sets. Suppose, for example, that the distribution of data within different small data sets is the same up to location and scale, with location and scale differing randomly from one data set to the next. I am interested in methods for estimating the distribution common to all data sets, and also the distribution of location and scale across data sets. I have considered both frequentist (minimum distance) and Bayesian methods for tackling this problem. Another problem involving a large number of small data sets is testing the equality of distributions across all data sets. This is like the classical k-sample problem, but with the key difference that instead of fixing k and allowing sample sizes to increase without bound, I let k tend to infinity with sample sizes fixed. Doing so leads to different and interesting asymptotics in this and other inference problems. I am also interested in simulation methods that involve generating many different models randomly rather than generating large numbers of data sets from just a few models. I call this approach BayesSim since the distribution from which models are selected is analogous to the prior distribution in Bayesian methodology. Keith Hatfield Statistics education, consulting Irma Hernandez-Magallanes Jianhua Huang Nonparametric and semiparametric methods, statistical function estimation using polynomial splines, statistical methods for longitudinal data/panel data, multivariate/functional data analysis, survival analysis, duration data, event history analysis, statistics application in business Valen Johnson My current methodological research interests focus on problems related to Bayesian hypothesis testing, Bayesian variable selection in ultra-high dimensional spaces, and latent variable models for ordinal and rank data analyses.In the areas of hypothesis testing and variable selection, I am particularly interested in exploring efficiencies that can be gained through the use of non-local prior densities to specify either alternative hypotheses in hypothesis testing problems or the non-null distributions of regression coefficients in variable selection problems.My research on ordinal and rank data modeling finds application in evaluating the intelligence of non-human primate species and in educational assessment. Applied problems that currently interest me include statistical studies of the impacts of college admission policies on diversity of college campuses and graduation rates and developing more meaningful instruments to evaluate undergraduate and graduate teaching. More generally, I am interested in studying the impact that assessment procedures have on educational processes. Finally, I am intrigued by the problem of performing inference in agent models used in sociology and psychology. David Jones My research interests include Bayesian modeling and computation, astrostatistics, machine learning methods, and measures of statistical information. Some of my current focuses are: Statistical and machine learning methodology for exoplanet detection in the presence of stellar activity. This is essentially a signal detection problem where the data are a high dimensional time series and the noise is highly structured and non-stationary. Developing interpretable measures of statistical information for classification and model selection problems. The information we need differs by context and I am interested in the information overlap and separation when considering several inference goals. Methodology and theory for constructing efficient Monte Carlo estimators of normalizing constants (or integrals more generally) Edward Jones Applied statistics, statistical computing, data mining/machine learning Mikyoung Jun My research focuses on developing statistical models and methods for spatial and spatial-temporal data. In particular, I am interested in studying and modeling the nonstationary covariance structure and the nature of the spatial-temporal interactions in various environmental applications. Regarding statistical methodology and theory, I am interested in developing parametric covariance model classes suitable for spatial and spatial-temporal processes on the surface of a sphere, geared towards data sets on a global scale (such as satellite data and numerical model outputs), and studying their characteristics. I work on various application problems, such as data assimilation (ensemble Kalman filter method), validation of climate model outputs, and analysis of surface images from geographic applications. Moumita Karmakar My current research interests include statistical analysis of high-throughput genomic datasets, variable selection in large p small n problems, multi-regional clinical trial and functional data analysis. I am also interested in Bayesian subspace estimation and sufficient dimension reduction Matthias Katzfu My research interests are mainly in Bayesian spatial statistics, with applications in the environmental sciences. As remote-sensing instruments mounted on satellites have made it possible to collect massive amounts of data on a global scale, much of my research focuses on the development of complex, flexible spatial methods that can be applied to big global datasets in a computationally feasible way. For example, I work with collaborators at NASA and NCAR on combining measurements from several satellites measuring CO2 on a global scale, on how to run related algorithms in parallel in modern distributed-computing environments, and on the real-time analysis of massive, streaming spatio-temporal datasets that are important for forecasting severe rainfall Elizabeth Kolodziej Spatial statistics, statistics education, consulting Hwa Chi Liang Linear Models, Statistical Education, Undergraduate Research Michael Longnecker My research is collaborative research with faculty members in entomology, animal science, and numerous other departments throughout the Texas A&M campus. My contributions consist of helping researchers design experiments, determine sample sizes, decide on appropriate models, select statistical methodology to analyze their data, and produce insightful graphs. This, hopefully, results in efficient designs, more powerful tests, and improved explanations of the results Bani Mallick Bayesian hierarchical modeling, nonparametric regression and classification, bioinformatics, spatio-temporal modeling, machine learning, functional data analysis, Bayesian nonparametrics, petroleum reservoir characterization, uncertainty analysis of computer model outputs H. Joseph Newton Time series analysis, computational statistics Yang Ni Methodology: Graphical models, Bayesian nonparametrics, big data computation, machine learning, random networks, variable selection, clustering and feature allocation, classification. Science: Gene/protein networks reconstruction, integrative genomics, brain connectomics, clinical trial design, tumor heterogeneity, precision medicine, biomarker detection, genetics, neuroscience, electronic health records Debdeep Pati My research involves developing Bayesian methods for complex objects including high-dimensional sparse vectors, matrices, shapes of non-Euclidean objects and large graphs. I am also interested in studying Bayesian model selection consistency under complex settings. Modeling the distributions of objects contained within images motivated some of my collaborative work, e.g., in applications of tumor tracking in targeted radiation therapy. More recently, I have become interested in building models for discovering patterns in large networks and to predict cognition from connectomics data Mohsen Pourahmadi My research is focused on modeling dependence (covariances) in multivariate and time series data using covariates. The goal is to develop machinery for covariance matrices just like the powerful generalized linear models (GLM) for the mean vector developed over two centuries. The key ideas and tools I rely on are from prediction theory, time series analysis and theory of stochastic processes. My interest in applications includes financial data analysis, analysis of longitudinal and panel data, data mining, classification and clustering, fMRI and high-dimensional data Huiyan Sang Bayesian statistics with a focus on spatial and spatio-temporal statistics Henrik Schmiediche Computational statistics Samiran Sinha Methodological research: missing data technique, measurement error, splines. Bayesian methods: parametric and nonparametric methods. Application: epidemiology, genetic epidemiology Clifford Spiegelman Theory: Nonparametric smoothing methods, measurement error models, high dimensional inference and estimation, calibration and inverse problems. Applications: in physical and engineering sciences: forensics, transportation, chemometrics, environmetrics, agriculture, and biology Suhasini Subba Rao Time series, nonstationary processes, nonlinear processes, recursive online algorithms, spatio-temporal models Suojin Wang Biostatistical inferences, missing and mis-measured data modeling and analysis, non- and semi-parametric methodology, resampling methods, small sample asymptotics, survey sampling Thomas Wehrly Stochastic models, directional data, mathematical statistics, nonparametric function estimation Raymond Ka Wai Wong Nonparametric and semi-parametric modeling; Regularization methods; Statistical applications to astronomy, brain imaging, computer experiments and recommender systems; Statistical learning Xianyang Zhang High dimensional statistics, Econometrics, Functional data analysis, and Time series analysis Lan Zhou Statistical methodology and application in bioinformatics, nutrition and epidemiology, functional/longitudinal data analysis StatLinks Stats News Calendar Maps Directory Contact Us Texas A&M University - College of Science - State of Texas - Site Accessibility - State Privacy & Linking Policy Texas A&M University is a member of The Texas A&M University System
