Katya Yurasovskaya Katya Yurasovskaya Senior Instructor, Sullivan Chair Department of Mathematics Seattle University yurasove at seattleu dot edu ENGR 410a phone 206-296-8465 Education PhD: 2008, University of British Columbia Postdoctoral Fellow: 2011, Carl Wieman Science Education Initiative CV (updated October 2019) Outreach As Sullivan Chair, I supervise SUM Corps - an outreach initiative within the Seattle University Department of Mathematics. Through SUM Corps, dedicated SU Math and STEM students engage in mathematics instruction to students in the neighborhood schools. At present, SUM Corps operates at two locations: Bailey Gatzert Elementary School, and Middle College HS, located on SU campus. Both schools serve a diverse population of students. Research At present I am studying applications and effects of academic service learning in mathematics courses. My post for the AMS blog on Teaching and Learning Mathematics describes implementation of service-learning in a Pre-calculus class. I look at issues of equity and social justice in mathematics education. I am also interested in international perspectives on teaching and learning, interactive engagement, and effective teaching practices. My mathematical interests include braid groups and networks. Teaching. I am designing, teaching, and researching a pilot course in Mathematical Communication. It serves as a lab for Introduction to Mathematical Proof, and sets up a community-building environment for participating students. In the past, I assisted Steve Klee with running grade 6 and 7 Math Circle at the University of Washington. I participate as judge in the Annual Math Hour Olympiad at the University of Washington. I think very seriously on incorporating elements of play into my classroom and teaching. Recent Publications The Reasons and Ways to Implement Service-Learning in a Precalculus Class, PRIMUS, 2019 Learning by Teaching: Service-Learning in a Precalculus Classroom. American Mathematical Society blog On Teaching and Learning Mathematics 2017. Service-learning in a precalculus class: Tutoring improves the course performance of the tutor. In (Eds.) T. Fukawa-Connelly, N. Infante, M. Wawro, and S. Brown, Proceedings of the 19th Annual Conference on Research in Undergraduate Mathematics Education, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 496-505, 2016 Links Carl Wieman Science Education Initiative Berkeley Math Circle MSRI National Association of Math Circles IBL and resources Ignatian Pedagogy This is a personal WEB site developed and maintained by an individual and not by Seattle University. The content and link(s) provided on this site do not represent or reflect the view(s) of Seattle University. The individual who authored this site is solely responsible for the site's content. This site and its author are subject to applicable University policies including the Computer Acceptable Use Policy (www.seattleu.edu/policies).
