Katie Oliveras (Home Page) Home Publications Research Teaching Undergrad Research Office Schedule Contact Katie Oliveras, Ph. D. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS Katie Oliveras I am currently an Assistant Professor in the Mathematics Department at Seattle University. Prior to joining Seattle University, I was a graduate student at the Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Washington, Seattle. I received my Ph.D. in 2009 in Applied Mathematics under the direction of Bernard Deconinck. I received my B.S. in Systems Science and Engineering (now in the Electrical Engineering department) at Washington University in St. Louis. DOWNLOAD FULL CV Education 2005 - 2009 University of Washington Ph. D. in Applied Mathematics 2003 - 2005 University of Washington M.S. in Applied Mathematics 1999 - 2003 Washington University in St. Louis B.S. in Systems Science & Engineering Recent Publications Nonlinear Traveling Internal Waves in Depth-Varying Currents K.L. Oliveras and C.W. Curtis In this paper, we examine the spectral stability of an interface between two fluids of varying densities with constant vorticity in each layer. A method to recover water-wave profiles from pressure measurements V Vasan, K Oliveras, D Henderson, B Deconinck We propose a method to recover surface elevation profiles from pressure measurements and conduct experimental comparisons show the method works for interacting waves and wave groups. READ MORE MORE PUBLICATIONS Contact Infomation Katie Oliveras Mathematics Department / College of Science & Engineering / Seattle University 901 12th Ave / Mathematics Department / Seattle, WA, 98122 Office Location / Bannan 411 Phone / 206.220.8210 Email / oliveras@seattleu.edu This is a personal WEB site developed and maintained by an individual and not by Seattle University. The content and link(s) provided on this site do not represent or reflect the view(s) of Seattle University. The individual who authored this site is solely responsible for the site's content. This site and its author are subject to applicable University policies including the Computer Acceptable Use Policy (www.seattleu.edu/policies).
