Ilana Hurwitz | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Ilana Hurwitz Visiting Professor of Law BA, University of Witwatersrand, South Africa LLB, cum laude, University of Witwatersrand, South Africa JD, cum laude, Suffolk University LLM, Harvard University Contact Email ihurwitz@bu.edu Biography Ms. Hurwitz has taught Trusts & Estates as visiting faculty at Boston University School of Law since 1997. She also taught at Boston College Law School for fifteen years. In addition to Trusts & Estates, Ms. Hurwitz has taught Alternative Dispute Resolution, Negotiation, Advanced Negotiation, and a course in lawyering skills and professional responsibility. Ms. Hurwitz supervised students in Harvard Law Schools Advocates for Human Rights Program and worked for several years in a Boston law firm focusing on family law and probate litigation. She clerked for Rya W. Zobel of the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts. Ms. Hurwitz co-authored Divorce Fundamentals: Law and Finances (1996); and The Genius Factor and Equitable Distribution of Property at Divorce, 38 Boston Bar Journal 10 (1994). She authored Collaborative Reproduction: Finding the Child in the Maze of Legal Motherhood, 33 Connecticut Law Review 127 (2000). Long interested in international human rights, Ms. Hurwitz, a South African native, began her legal career during the apartheid era working for South Africas largest independent public interest law facility, the Legal Resources Centre in Johannesburg. She has been involved in refugee issues for almost 30 years, having represented asylum seekers, served for 12 years as a director of the Political Asylum/Immigration Representation Project, providing pro bono legal services for asylum seekers and immigrants unjustly detained, and having coached refugees on career development at Boston Center for Refugee Health and Human Rights. For the past three years, Ms. Hurwitz has advised Integrity Initiatives International, a NGO combatting grand corruption across the globe with the ultimate goal of establishing an International Anti-Corruption Court. She serves on the board of directors of South Africa Partners, building mutually beneficial partnerships between the U.S. and South Africa in areas of health and education. Ms. Hurwitz earned Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws cum laude at University of the Witwatersrand and, as a Fulbright Scholar, Master of Laws at Harvard Law School. As a prerequisite for the Massachusetts bar examination, she later earned a Juris Doctor degree cum laude at Suffolk Law School. In the MediaFebruary 7, 2019A Patriarch Leaves No Will and the Home He Meant for His Cambridge Family May Be LostVisiting Professor Ilana Hurwitz is featured in the Boston Globe. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
