Tiffany Li | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Tiffany Li Visiting Clinical Assistant Professor JD, Georgetown University Law Center BA, University of California Los Angeles Contact Office 1204F Email tcli@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3140 Personal WebsiteSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography Tiffany C. Li is a technology attorney and legal scholar. She is an expert on privacy, artificial intelligence, and technology platform governance. Lis writing has appeared in popular publications including the Washington Post, the Atlantic, NBC News, and Slate. She is regularly featured as an expert commentator in national and global news outlets across television, radio, podcasts, and print, and digital publications. Li has been honored as a transatlantic digital debates fellow (Global Public Policy Institute/ New America Foundation), a fellow of information privacy (International Association of Privacy Professionals), an internet law and policy foundry fellow (Internet Education Foundation), and an intellectual property law fellow (American Bar Association). Li is also an affiliate fellow at Yale Law Schools Information Society Project and has held past affiliations with Princetons Center for Information Technology Policy and UC Berkeleys Center for Technology, Society and Policy. Li is a licensed attorney and holds CIPP/US, CIPP/E, CIPT, and CIPM certifications from the International Association of Privacy Professionals. Her professional legal experience includes roles at the Wikimedia Foundation and General Assembly. She has a JD from Georgetown University Law Center, where she was a global law scholar, and a BA in English from University of California, Los Angeles. Publications Tiffany Li, "Privacy in Pandemic: Law, Technology, and Public Health in the COVID-19 Crisis," 52 Loyola University Chicago Law Journal (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Tiffany Li, Jill Bronfman & Zhou Zhou, "Saving Face: Unfolding the Screen of Chinese Privacy Law," Journal of Law and Information Science (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Tiffany Li, "A ;-) at the Past and Future of English," 21 The Green Bag 2d 335 (2018). Scholarly Commons Tiffany Li, Beyond Intermediary Liability: The Future of Information Platforms - Workshop Report, Yale Law School Information Society Project, (2018). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Tiffany Li, Eduard Fosch Villaronga & Peter Kieseberg, "Humans Forget, Machines Remember: Artificial Intelligence and the Right to Be Forgotten," 34 Computer Law & Security Review 304 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Tiffany Li, Intermediaries and Private Speech Regulation: A Transatlantic Dialogue - Workshop Report, Yale Law School Information Society Project, (2018). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons In the MediaDecember 11, 2020Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust RulingsTiffany Li is quoted. read moreDecember 10, 2020Facebook Antitrust Suits Seek To Divest Instagram, WhatsAppTiffany Li is quoted. read moreNovember 30, 2020Tech is Saving the Covid Holiday Season Even As It Eats Away At Our PrivacyA piece by Tiffany Li. read moreNovember 24, 2020The Path to the Supreme Court is Unlikely at BestTiffany Li is interviewed. read moreNovember 11, 2020Twitter and Facebooks Election Disinformation Efforts May be Too Little, Too LateA piece by Tiffany Li. read moreOctober 23, 2020Even the Best Contact Tracing App Needs a National Covid Plan to WorkA piece by Tiffany Li. read moreSeptember 24, 2020How Two Mass. Residents Could Be Affected by WeChat, TikTok BanTiffany Li is interviewed. read moreSeptember 14, 2020TikTok Owner Picks Oracle Over Microsoft as U.S. Tech PartnerTiffany Li is quoted. read moreAugust 10, 2020As Trump Digs in, Will it be US versus China in Tech?Tiffany Li quoted. read moreJuly 1, 2020Britain Will Abandon Its Plans to Develop In-House Tracking and Use Apple and Googles Program InsteadTiffany Li quoted. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
