Wendy Kaplan | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Wendy Kaplan Clinical Professor of Law AB with distinction, Mount Holyoke College JD, Boston College Areas of Interest Criminal Law & Procedure Contact Office Room 1302D Email wjkaplan@bu.edu Phone 617-353-5821 Full CV Biography Wendy Kaplanjoined the Criminal Trial Practice Clinic at Boston University School of Law, following her work as a trial attorney in the Massachusetts public defender office. She became a clinical professor in 2017. Her primary clinical work involves the education, training and case supervision of third-year law students who represent defendants in criminal and delinquency trials. Her clinical teaching examines criminal law, criminal procedure, professional responsibility and trial advocacy. In the Clinic, student defenders build upon the legal knowledge theyve acquired in traditional courses and apply that learning to the development of a defense strategy in each of their cases, she explains. Many of the clients that Professor Kaplans students defend are juveniles, and this experience, she says, gives students important insight into the sociological issues affecting youthful offenders in the juvenile court system. Students learn to appreciate how school and family issues affect juvenile cases, and they learn about the many responsibilities that accompany holistic client representation. Professor Kaplans interest in juvenile justice has led her to teach a seminar on juvenile delinquency that explores the historical and legal foundations for our juvenile system. Students investigate policy changes regarding the treatment of delinquent children that have evolved since the establishment of the first juvenile court. Professor Kaplan is a member of the Board of Directors of Suffolk Lawyers for Justice, Inc., a non-profit organization made up of approximately 400 attorneys who provide legal services to indigent criminal defendants. She is a former Massachusetts Bar Associationdelegate-at-large member of the Board of Delegates, as well as former chair of theAccess to Justicesection. Professor Kaplan is a former board member of the Massachusetts Law Reform Institute and has been a faculty member for the Massachusetts Continuing Legal Education and the Committee for Public Counsel Services zealous advocacy training program. Publications Wendy Kaplan & Mark Rapisarda, "Juvenile Competency and Pretrial Due Process: A Call for Greater Protections in Massachusetts for Juveniles Residing in Procedural Purgatory," 67 no.4 Juvenile & Family Court Journal 5 (Dec 2016). Wendy Kaplan & Howard Friedman, "Civil Consequences of Criminal Cases," in Massachusetts Criminal Practice Chapter 43, 4th ed., Eric D. Blumenson & Arthur B. Leavens, eds., Eric Blumenson (2012). Publisher Wendy Kaplan & J. W. Carney Jr., "Dispositions and Sentencing Advocacy," in Massachusetts Criminal Practice Chapter 39, 4th ed., Eric D. Blumenson & Arthur B. Leavens, eds., Eric Blumenson (2012). Publisher Wendy Kaplan & David Rossman, "Called 'Out' at Home: The One Strike Eviction Policy and Juvenile Court," in Symposium Our Youth at a Crossroad: The Collateral Consequences of Juvenile Adjudication, 3 Duke Forum for Law and Social Change 109 (2011). Publisher Wendy Kaplan, "Revisiting Dispositions and Sentencing Advocacy in the Massachusetts District Courts," 92 Massachusetts Law Review 65 (2009). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy Kaplan, "Sentencing Advocacy in the Massachusetts District Courts," 80 Massachusetts Law Review 22 (1995). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline In the MediaOctober 7, 2015Jury Selection To Begin in Danvers Teens Murder TrialWendy Kaplan quoted in Boston Globe. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
