Michael J. Meurer | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Michael J. Meurer Professor of Law Abraham and Lillian Benton Scholar SB in Economics and Interdisciplinary Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology JD cum laude, University of Minnesota PhD in Economics, University of Minnesota Areas of Interest Economics & Law, Intellectual Property Contact Office Room 1506A Email meurer@bu.edu Phone 617-353-6292 Full CVSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography The son of an economics professor, Michael Meurer knew by the time he was 13 that he, too, wanted to teach at the university level. An SB, JD and PhD later, he became an economics professor at Duke University and later a law professor at the University of Buffalo. He came to Boston University School of Law in 1999, where he has taught courses in patents, intellectual property and public policy toward the high-tech industry. Its a special privilege to be able to speak three times a week to an attentive and thoughtful audience, he says. Professor Meurer has received several grants and fellowships, including two grants from the Pew Charitable Trust, a Ford Foundation grant, an Olin Faculty Fellowship at Yale Law School and a postdoctoral fellowship at AT&T Bell Labs. He has served as an expert witness for the Federal Trade Commission on a merger case presenting issues related to patent licensing. He also has consulted with government officials from developing countries about antitrust law, and taught short courses in American intellectual property law at the law faculties of the University of Victoria and the National University of Singapore. Im excited by the prospect of having a positive influence on American technology law and policy, Professor Meurer says. Outside of work, he enjoys playing and watching basketball. Publications Michael Meurer & Ben Depoorter, "Price Discrimination & Intellectual Property," in Research Handbook on the Economics of Intellectual Property Law 281, Ben Depoorter, Peter S. Menell & David Schwartz, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer, "Allocating Patent Litigation Risk Across the Supply Chain," 25 Texas Intellectual Property Law Journal 251 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons William E. Kovacic, Robert Marshall & Michael Meurer, "Serial Collusion by Multi-Product Firms," 6 Journal of Antitrust Enforcement 296 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer, "Bargaining Failure and Failure to Bargain," in Symposium Notice and Notice Failure in Intellectual Property Law, 96 Boston University Law Review 655 (2016). Publisher Michael Meurer, "Current Issues in Patent Law and Policy," in Symposium Law andInnovation, 39 Harvard Journal of Law & Public Policy 71 (2015). Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "The Direct Costs from NPE Disputes," 99 Cornell Law Review 387 (2014). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & Peter S. Menell, "Notice Failure and Notice Externalities," 5 Journal of Legal Analysis 1 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "The Patent Litigation Explosion," 45 Loyola University of Chicago Law Journal 401 (2013). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "The Private and Social Costs of Patent Trolls," 34:4 Regulation 26 (2011-12). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer, "Patent Litigation, Licensing, Nonobviousness, and Antitrust," in Antitrust Law and Economics 281, Keith Hylton, ed., Edward Elgar Publishing Limited (2010). [v.4 Encyclopedia of Law and Economics, 2d ed.] Michael Meurer, "Inventors, Entrepreneurs, and Intellectual Property Law," in Symposium Patent Law in Perspective, 45 Houston Law Review 1201 (2008-09). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "Patent Examination Priorities," in Symposium The Boundaries of Intellectual Property: The Boundaries of Patent Law, 51 William & Mary Law Review 675 (2009). Publisher | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "Of Patents and Property," 31:4 Regulation 18 (Winter 2008-09). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & Katherine J. Strandburg, "Patent Carrots and Sticks: A Model of Nonobviousness," in Symposium Business Law Forum: Nonobviousness - The Shape of Things to Come, 12 Lewis & Clark Law Review 547 (2008). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & James Bessen, Patent Failure: How Judges, Bureaucrats, and Lawyers Put Innovators at Risk, Princeton University Press (2008). Publisher Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "What's Wrong with the Patent System? Fuzzy Boundaries and the Patent Tax," 12:6 First Monday (2007). Publisher Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "Patent Litigation with Endogenous Disputes," 96 American Economic Review Papers & Proceedings 77 (2006). Michael Meurer & Craig Nard, "Invention, Refinement and Patent Claim Scope: A New Perspective on the Doctrine of Equivalents," 93 Georgetown Law Journal 1947 (2005). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & James Bessen, "Lessons for Patent Policy from Empirical Research on Patent Litigation," 9 Lewis and Clark Law Review 1 (2005). Reprinted in Intellectual Property and Information Wealth: Issues and Practices in the Digital Age, Peter K. Yu, ed., Praeger (2007).Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & Craig Nard, "Patent Policy Adrift in a Sea of Anecdote: A Reply to Lichtman," 93 Georgetown Law Journal 2033 (2005). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer & Robert Marshall, "Bidder Collusion and Antitrust Law: Refining the Analysis of Price Fixing to Account for the Special Features of Auction Markets," 72 Antitrust Law Journal 83 (2004). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "Law, Economics, and the Theory of the Firm," 52 Buffalo Law Review 727 (2004). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "Too Many Markets or Too Few? Copyright Policy Toward Shared Works," 77 Southern California Law Review 903 (2004). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "Controlling Opportunistic and Anti-Competitive Intellectual Property Litigation," 44 Boston College Law Review 509 (2003). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & F. Scott Kieff, "Pharmacogenomics, Genetic Tests, and Patent-Based Incentives: Perspectives on Properties of the Human Genome Project," in Advances in Genetics 399, Academic Press (2003). SSRN Michael Meurer, "Vertical Restraints and Intellectual Property Law: Beyond Antitrust," 87 Minnesota Law Review 1871 (2003). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer, "Business Method Patents and Patent Floods," 8 Washington University Journal of Law and Policy 309 (2002). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer, "Comments on Open Source Genomics," in Symposium Bioinformatics and Intellectual Property Law, 8 Boston University Journal of Science & Technology Law 265 (2002). Michael Meurer, "Copyright Law and Price Discrimination," 23 Cardozo Law Review 55 (2001). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer & Robert Marshall, "The Economics of Auctions and Bidder Collusion," in Game Theory and Business Applications 339, Kalyan Chatterjee & William F. Samuelson, eds., Kluwer (2001). Michael Meurer, Michael Baram, Ashley Stevens & Thomas Meyers, "Intellectual Property Panel: Patent Rights and Licensing," in Symposium Advances in Biomaterials and Devices, and Their Financing, 6 Boston University Journal of Science & Technology Law 3 (2000). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "Conference Remarks: Digital Technology and Copyright: A Threat or a Challenge," 39 IDEA 291 (1999). [Franklin Pierce Law Center] Michael Meurer, "Fair Division," 47 Buffalo Law Review 937 (1999). Westlaw | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Meurer, "Price Discrimination, Personal Use and Piracy: Copyright Protection of Digital Works," 45 Buffalo Law Review 845 (1997). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, Robert Marshall & Jean-Francois Richard, "Curbing Agency Problems in the Procurement Process," 25 Rand Journal of Economics 297 (1994). Michael Meurer & Dale Stahl, "Informative Advertising and Product Match," 12 International Journal of Industrial Organization 1 (1994). Michael Meurer, Robert Marshall & Jean-Francois Richard, "Litigation Settlement and Collusion," 109 Quarterly Journal of Economics 213 (1994). Michael Meurer, Robert Marshall & Jean-Francois Richard, "Multiple Litigants with a Public Good Remedy," 16 Research in Law and Economics 151 (1994). Michael Meurer, Robert Marshall & Jean-Francois Richard, "Numerical Analysis of Asymmetric First Price Auctions," 7 Games and Economic Behavior 193 (1994). Michael Meurer, Robert Marshall & Jean-Francois Richard, "Incentive-Based Procurement Oversight by Protest," in Incentives in Procurement Contracting 39, J. Leitzel & J. Tirole, eds., Westview (1993). Michael Meurer, "The Gains from Faith in an Unfaithful Agent: Settlement Conflicts Between Defendants and Liability Insurers," 8 Journal of Law, Economics & Organization 502 (1992). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, Robert Marshall & Jean-Francois Richard, "The Private Attorney General Meets Public Contract Law: Procurement Oversight by Protest," 20 Hofstra Law Review 1 (1991-92). Reprinted in IRS Computer Modernization and Procurement, Hearings before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee (June 25, 1991 and April 2, 1992).Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer & Kenneth Chapman, "Efficient Remedies for Breach of Warranty," in Symposium Economics of Contract Law, 52 Law & Contemporary Problems 107 (1989). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "Foreword: Economics of Contract Law," 52 Law & Contemporary Problems 1 (1989). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Meurer, "The Settlement of Patent Litigation," 20 Rand Journal of Economics 77 (1989). Michael Meurer, "An Economic Analysis of Royalty Terms in Patent Licenses," 67 Minnesota Law Review 1198 (1983). [Note] Reprinted in 16 Intellectual Property Law Review 121 (1984). In the MediaAugust 4, 2017How the Supreme Court could strengthen the patent systemStudy by James Bessen, Jennifer Ford ('11) and Michael Meurer cited in "How the Supreme Court could strengthen the patent system," T... read moreMay 12, 2017Standing Up To A Dangerous New Breed Of Patent TrollJames Bessen and Michael Meurer's research featured in "Standing Up To A Dangerous New Breed Of Patent Troll," PublicNow read moreMay 8, 2017Stepping Up to the Patent Troll ProblemJames Bessen & Micheal Meurer's research featured in "Stepping Up to the Patent Troll Problem," Mobile Mag read moreJune 17, 2016Why EMC Employees Are Forming a Pop-Up Union to Take Down NoncompetesJames Bessen and Michael Meurer featured in BostInno. read moreDecember 22, 2015Indian Patent Office Puts On Hold Guidelines for Patenting SoftwareJames Bessen and Michael Meurer cited in Times of India. read moreNovember 19, 2015A Third of the Economy Is at Stake and Patent Trolls Are to BlameJames Bessen and Michael J. Meurer in the Washington Post. read moreJuly 13, 2015The State of Patent Trolls in 2015James Bessen and Michael Meurer cited by Inside Counsel. read moreJune 4, 2015Trade Group CEO Warns Patent Trolls May Chase Tech Companies out of USJames Bessen and Michael Meurer cited in Washington Times. read moreApril 6, 2015Conservatives Wrong to Oppose Patent ReformStudy by James Bessen and Michael Meurer cited in The Hill. read moreMarch 12, 2015Professors Issue Conflicting Views of Patent ReformMichael Meurer quoted in National Law Journal. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
