Peggy Maisel | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Peggy Maisel Clinical Professor of Law BA Pomona College MA Occidental College (Urban Studies) JD Boston University School of Law MAT Antioch University School of Law (Clinical Legal Education) Areas of Interest Civil Litigation, Civil Rights, Experiential Education, International & Comparative Law, Professional Responsibility Contact Office Room 1302E Email pmaisel@bu.edu Phone 617-358-2182 Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Peggy Maisel joined the BU Law Faculty in July 2014 as a clinical professor and as the first associate dean for experiential education for five years overseeing more than 20 clinical and externship programs, in which more than 250 student participate annually. She also works to advance curriculum initiatives, pedagogical practices and academic research that strengthen linkages between the Schools experiential education program and its traditional academic curriculum. She currently teaches Legal Externship courses, Professional Responsibility, and the Civil Litigation Clinic including seminars in Pre-Trial and Trial Advocacy. Maisels career has included leadership positions in both public interest law and the legal academy, having served as dean of the New College of California School of Law and as executive director of The Massachusetts Fair Housing Center. She has co-chaired the International Clinical Committee of the Association of American Law Schools, served on the Board of Governors of the Society of American Law Teachers, and been a steering committee member of the Global Alliance for Justice Education. From 1996 through 2001, she was first a Fulbright scholar and then an associate professor of law at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa, where she co-authored two textbooks, Introduction to Law and Legal Skills and Foundations of South African Law: Critical Issues for Law Students. She has consulted on clinical legal education throughout the world, including a full-time semester in Amman, Jordan and as a Visiting Professor at the University of Cape Town. Prior to joining BU Law, Maisel served as a professor of law at Florida International University, where she was the founding director of the law schools Clinical Legal Education Program since its inception in 2003. She established and taught a community development clinic and an interdisciplinary health law and policy clinic in partnership with FIUs College of Medicine. Publications Peggy Maisel, Margaret Martin Barry, Robert Dinerstein, Phyllis Goldfarb & Linda Morton, "Exploring the Meaning of Experiential Deaning," 67 Journal of Legal Education 660 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, Iveris Martinez, Natalie Castellanos, Casey Carr, Christopher Plescia et al., "Increasing Awareness on Health Care Access in Florida: A Community-Based Medical-Legal Practicum Project," 10 Progress in Community Health Partnerships: Research, Education, and Action 141 (2016). Peggy Maisel, Shaheda Mahomed & Meetali Jain, "Clinical Legal Educations Contribution to Building Constitutionalism and Democracy in South Africa: Past, Present, and Future," 60 New York Law School Law Review 433 (2015-16). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, "Florida Should Agree to Medicaid Expansion," Miami Herald op-ed page (Mar 2, 2013). Peggy Maisel, "Greensboro and Beyond: Remediating the Structural Sexism in Truth and Reconciliation Processes and Determining the Potential Impact and Benefits of Truth Processes in the United States," in Feminist Perspectives on Transitional Justice : From International and Criminal to Alternative Forms of Justice 215, Martha Albertson Fineman & Estelle Zinsstag, eds., Intersentia Press (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, Karen Tokarz, Antoinette Sedillo-Lopez & Robert Seibel, "Legal Education At A Crossroads: Innovation, Integration, and Pluralism Required!" 43 Washington University Journal of Law and Policy 11 (2013). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel & Natalie Roman, "Small Business Disaster Assistance," in Building Community Resilience Post-Disaster: A Guide for Affordable Housing and Community Economic Development Practitioners 187, Diane Standaert & Dorcas R. Gilmore, eds., American Bar Association (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel & Natalie Roman, "The Consumer Indebtedness Crisis: Law School Clinics As Laboratories For Generating Effective Legal Responses," 18 Clinical Law Review 133 (2011). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, "Have Truth and Reconciliation Commissions Helped Remediate Human Rights Violations Against Women? An Analysis of the Past and Formula for the Future," 20 Cardozo Journal of International & Comparative Law 143 (2011). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, "The Education and Licensing of Attorneys and Advocates in South Africa," 79 The Bar Examiner 2 (May 2010). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, "Setting an Agenda for the Global Clinical Movement," in The Global Clinical Movement: Educating Lawyers for Social Justice 335, Frank S. Bloch, ed., Oxford University Press (2010). Peggy Maisel & Susan Jones, "Implementing the Social and Economic Promise of the Constitution: the Role of South African Legal Education," in Law and Rights: Global Perspectives on Constitutionalism and Governance 243, Penelope Andrews & Susan Bazilli, eds., Vanderplas (2008). Peggy Maisel, "The Role of U.S. Law Faculty in Developing Countries: Striving for Effective Cross-Cultural Collaboration," 14 Clinical Law Review 465 (2008). Peggy Maisel, "Expanding and Sustaining Clinical Legal Education In Developing Countries: What We Can Learn From South Africa," 30 Fordham International Law Journal 374 (2007). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel, "Seeking Truth and Reconciliation," Miami Herald op-ed page (Jul 21, 2005). Peggy Maisel, "An Alternative Model to United States Bar Examinations: The South African Community Service Experience in Licensing Attorneys," 20 Georgia State University Law Review 977 (2004). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel & Lesley Greenbaum, Foundations of South African Law: Critical Issues for Law Students, Butterworths (2002). Peggy Maisel, "Lessons from the World Conference Against Racism," 81 Oregon Law Review 739 (2002). Scholarly Commons Peggy Maisel & Lesley Greenbaum, Introduction to Law and Legal Skills, Butterworths (2001). Peggy Maisel, Lesley Greenbaum & Brook Baker, Introduction to Law and Legal Skills, Teacher's Manual, Butterworths (2001). Peggy Maisel, The Qualifications of South African Attorneys to sit for the New York State Bar Examination, New York State Board of Law Examiners, (Nov 2001). Peggy Maisel, "Building Knowledge, Skills, and Values in the First Year Curriculum," in Transforming South African Universities 104, P.F. Iya, Nasila S. Rembe & J. Baloro, eds., Africa Institute of South Africa (2000). Peggy Maisel, Background Paper on Legal Services in the United States, National Legal Aid Forum, Johannesburg, (Jan 1998). Peggy Maisel & Ira Horowitz, Learning Legal Skills, Legal Services Corp. (1984). View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
