Walter W. Miller | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Walter W. Miller, Jr. Professor of Law Emeritus A.B., Harvard College B.D., Lutheran Theological Seminary, Philadelphia J.D., State University of New York at Buffalo LL.M., Harvard University Certificate of Completion, Oxford University Contact Office Room 1170G Email wmiller@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3125 Full CV Biography Walter Miller is a leading authority in bankruptcy law. Bankruptcy is a constantly changing field that has captured the publics attention, he says. Corporations and individuals are reorganizing their financial affairs through the use of the bankruptcy code in unprecedented numbers, and we may soon be seeing restrictions on individuals access to remedies, which is now being acrimoniously debated. Students find this a fascinating area because of its social and legal ramifications. A member of the School of Law faculty since 1965, Professor Miller has taught securities regulation, conflict of laws, legal history and legal ethics. I endeavor to teach my students not just how to think like lawyers or use the rules and principles of law, but how to conduct themselves in an honorable and ethical manner, he says. The latter is the most important to me. For a civilization to survive and thrive, the population must trust its laws, lawmakers, lawyers and judges, and that trust must be founded on the fact that those who serve do so with honesty and integrity. Professor Miller, who also is a specialist in the areas of contract law and the Uniform Commercial Code, has published a number of journal articles in various fields of law. Twice his writings have been cited as relevant authority in majority opinions of the United States Supreme Court. His books include Contracts: Problems, Cases, and Materials, and Bankruptcy: Problems, Cases and Materials. He has received from BU Law the Alumni Associations Silver Shingle Award for Distinguished Service to the School, as well as the Michael Melton Award for Excellence in Teaching. Prior to studying law, Professor Miller served as a clergyperson and as Chairman of A Council of Churches Television Committee, for which he organized and scripted programs and appeared regularly on TV. Publications Walter Miller Jr., "Municipal Bonds in Chapter 9 Adjustment Proceedings," 9 Westlaw Journal Bankruptcy 1 (Mar 14, 2013). Walter Miller Jr., "Attorneys Wrestle with Implications of Supreme Court's Stern v. Marshall Ruling," 23:26 BNA's Bankruptcy Law Reporter 819 (June 30, 2011). [contributor] Walter Miller Jr. & Virginia A. Greiman, "Foreign Creditors in U.S. Courts: Creation and Dissolution of Attachments and Other Interests," 23:35 BNA's Bankruptcy Law Reporter 1111 (Sept. 15, 2011). Walter Miller Jr., 2006 Supplement to Bankruptcy: Problems, Cases and Materials, 2003, Carolina Academic Press (2006). Walter Miller Jr., 2004 Supplement to Bankruptcy: Problems, Cases and Materials (2003), Carolina Academic Press (2004). Walter Miller Jr., Bankruptcy: Problems, Cases and Materials, Carolina Academic Press and Teacher's Manual (2003). Walter Miller Jr., "The Proposed 'Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2002," 22 Annual Review of Banking Law (2003). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr. & Maureen A. O'Rourke, "Bankruptcy Law v. Privacy Rights: Which Holds the Trump Card?" 38 Houston Law Review 777 (2001). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr. & Frances Miller, "Lessons to Be Learned from Harvard Pilgrim HMO's Fiscal Roller Coaster Ride," 28 Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 287 (2000). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr., Contracts: Problems, Cases and Materials, Carolina Academic Press and Teacher's Manual (1999). Walter Miller Jr., "Bankruptcy's New Value Exception: No Longer a Necessity," 77 Boston University Law Review 975 (1997). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr. et al., "Tribute to Professor Austin T. Stickells," 73 Boston University Law Review 139 (1993). Walter Miller Jr., "Tribute to William Schwartz," 68 Boston University Law Review 819 (1988). Walter Miller Jr., "Bankruptcy Code Cramdown Under Chapter 11: New Threat to Shareholder Interests," 62 Boston University Law Review 1059 (1982). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr., "Liens Created by Operation of Law: A Look at Section 9-310 of the Uniform Commercial Code," 76 Commercial Law Journal 211 (1971). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr., "Fraudulent Conveyances - Some Reflections on Section 70a (4) of the Bankruptcy Act," 48 Boston University Law Review 222 (1968). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr., "Co-operative Apartments: Real Estate or Securities," 45 Boston University Law Review 465 (1965). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Walter Miller Jr., "Insurance Company Liability for Exemplary Damages," 12 Buffalo Law Review 623 (1962-63). View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
