Wendy J. Gordon | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Wendy J. Gordon William Fairfield Warren Distinguished Professor Professor of Law BA with distinction in all subjects, Cornell University JD, University of Pennsylvania Areas of Interest Economics & Law, Intellectual Property, Jurisprudence, Torts Contact Office Room 1404A Email wgordon@bu.edu Phone 617-353-4420 Full CVSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography Wendy J. Gordonhas taught at Boston University since 1993, having taught at Rutgers, Georgetown, University of Michigan and other schools before arriving here. Her scholarship utilizes economics as well as ethics and analytic philosophy to understand copyright, trademark, and related forms of intellectual property. She is probably best known for her analyses of copyrights fair use doctrine and of John Lockes theory of property. For fair use, she shows that the supposedly puzzling doctrine responds well to practical and normative defects in markets. As for Locke, his historic property theory is commonly understood as implicitly justifying broad intellectual property rights, but Gordon shows how Lockes logic instead justifies broad free speech liberties and only intellectual property rights that are remarkably narrow. Professor Gordon enjoys interdisciplinary teaching as well as interdisciplinary scholarship. At BU she has co-taught a course in law and literature with a literary critic, a course on political theory with a philosopher, and a course on copyright and rhetoric with a Shakespearean actor. Professor Gordons current scholarly project builds on her hypothesis that copyright infringement can be usefully understood as a mirror-image of the law of accidental injury. Both copyright liability and the personal-injury tort of negligence can be seen as modes of improving private decision-making: The threat of negligence liability decreases careless behavior by making appropriate actors know they will bear some cost of the harm they cause. Conversely, the promise of copyright liability increases creative behavior by enabling appropriate actors to capture some profit from the benefits they generate. Professor Gordon has co-authored two books on the economics of copyright, published numerous law journal articles, and written book chapters on copyright issues, free speech, computer copyright, and the fair use doctrine. She serves on the editorial board of the EuropeanJournal of Law and Economics.The US Supreme Court has three times cited her scholarship. She has receiveda Fulbright scholar, was elected by Oxfords St. Johns College to a Visiting Senior Research Fellowship, and was selected as a resident at the Rockefeller Foundation retreat in Bellagio. Professor Gordon has also been the Bacon-Kilkenny Distinguished Visitor at Fordham, a Visiting Fellow at Oxfords Programme in Comparative Media Law and Policy, and the Intellectual Property Distinguished Visitor at the Lewis and Clark Law School. She has twice served as the Chair of the Association of American Law Schools Section on Intellectual Property. Publications Wendy J. Gordon, "Fair Use in Oracle: Proximate Cause at the Copyright/Patent Divide," 100 Boston University Law Review (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "Response to Oliar and Stern: On Duration, the Idea/Expression Dichotomy, and Time," in Symposium , 100 Boston University Law Review Online 33 (2020). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, Alain Marciano & Giovanni B. Ramello, "The Future of Law and Economics and the Legacy of Guido Calabresi," 48 European Journal of Law and Economics 1 (2019). Wendy J. Gordon, "Copyright Owners' Putative Interests in Privacy, Reputation, and Control: A Reply to Goold," 103 Virginia Law Review Online 36 (2017). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "How Oracle Erred: The Use/Explanation Distinctionand the Future of Computer Copyright," in Copyright Law in an Age of Limitations and Exceptions 375, Ruth L. Okediji, ed., Cambridge University Press (2017). BU | Scholarly Commons | SSRN Wendy J. Gordon, "Copyright and Tortas Mirror Models: On Not Mistaking for the Right Hand What the Left Hand is Doing," in Comparative Law and Economics 311, Giovanni B. Ramello & Theodore Eisenberg, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2016). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "The Core of Copyright: Authors, Not Publishers," in Symposium Recalibrating Copyright: Continuity, Contemporary Culture, and Change, 52 Houston Law Review 613 (2014-15). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "The Fair Use Doctrine: Markets, Market Failure and Rights of Use," in Handbook on the Economics of Copyright: A Guide for Students and Teachers 77, Richard Watt, ed., Edward Elgar Publishing (2014). Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "The Concept of 'Harm' in Copyright," in Intellectual Property and the Common Law 452, Shyam Balganesh, ed., Cambridge University Press (2013). SSRN Wendy J. Gordon, "Dissemination Must Serve Authors: How the U.S. Supreme Court Erred," 10 Review of Economic Research on Copyright Issues 1 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "The Lost Logic of Deterrence: When Sending A Message To The Masses Outstrips Fairness," COGNOSCENTI (Jul 11, 2013). Publisher Wendy J. Gordon, "Fair Use Markets: On Weighing Potential License Fees," in Symposium Celebrating the Fourteenth Anniversary of Justice Breyer's Article: The Uneasy Case for Copyright: Supporting Creativity and its Dissemination: Alternative Ends, Alternative Means, 79 George Washington Law Review 1814 (2011). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Current Patent Laws Cannot Claim the Backing of Human Rights," in Intellectual Property and Human Rights: A Paradox 155, Willem Grosheide, ed., Edward Elgar (2010). Publisher Wendy J. Gordon, "Discipline and Nourish: On Constructing Commons," 95 Cornell Law Review 733 (2010). [Response] Wendy J. Gordon, S. Scafidi, Orit Fischman Afori, Mark Janis & Jonathan Moskin, "The Global Contours of IP Protection for Trade Dress, Industrial Design, Applied Art, and Product Configuration," in Symposium Functionality: At the Crossroads of IP, 20 Fordham Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal 795 (2010). [Panel Discussion]Publisher Wendy J. Gordon, "Harmless Use: Gleaning from Fields of Copyrighted Works," in Symposium When Worlds Collide: Intellectual Property at the Interface Between Systems of Knowledge Creation, 77 Fordham Law Review 2411 (2009). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Trespass-Copyright Parallels and the Harm-Benefit Distinction," 122 Harvard Law Review Forum (2009). Westlaw | Publisher Wendy J. Gordon, "Moral Philosophy, Information Technology, and Copyright," in Information Technology and Moral Philosophy 270, Jeroen van den Hoven & John Weckert, eds., Cambridge University Press (2008). Wendy J. Gordon, "Ronald Coase," in The New Oxford Companion to Law, Peter Cane & J. Conaghan, eds., Oxford University Press, 147 (2008). Wendy J. Gordon, "The 'Why' of Markets: Copyright and Fair Use," 116 Yale Law Journal Pocket Part 371 (2007). Westlaw | Publisher | BU Wendy J. Gordon & Daniel Bahls, "The Public's Right to Fair Use: Amending Section 107 to Avoid the 'Fared Use' Fallacy," in Symposium on Fixing Copyright, 2007 Utah Law Review 619 (2007). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Copyright Norms and the Problem of Private Censorship," in Copyright and Free Speech: Comparative and International Analyses 67, Jonathan Griffiths & U. Suthersanen, eds., Oxford University Press (2005). Developments in the Economics of Copyright: Research and Analysis, Wendy J. Gordon, Lisa N. Takeyama & Ruth Towse, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2005). Publisher Wendy J. Gordon & Lois Wasoff, "Even Non-Extremists Get the Blues: The Rhetoric of Copyright," in An Unhurried View of Copyright Republished (and with Contributions from Friends) GORWAS-1, B. Kaplan, Arthur R. Miller & I. C. Geik, eds., Matthew Bender (2005). Wendy J. Gordon, "Fair Use: Threat or Threatened?" in Symposium on Copyright and Personal Copying: Sony v. Universal Studios Twenty-one Years Later, 55 Case Western Reserve Law Review 903 (2005). [Keynote]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Do We Have a Right to Speak with Another's Language? Eldred and the Duration of Copyright," in Copyright and Human Rights 109, Paul L. C. Torremans, ed., Kluwer Publishing (2004). Reprinted in 2 The Political Economy of Intellectual Property Rights 526, Christopher May, ed., Edward Elgar Publishing Limited (2010). Wendy J. Gordon, "Render Copyright unto Caesar: On Taking Incentives Seriously," 71 University of Chicago Law Review 75 (2004). Republished as: "Dati Caru Njegovo Autorsko Pravo: O Ozbiljnom Shva Anju Poticaja," translated by Zeljko Mrsic, Nov-um (2008). [Croatian]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Copyright As Tort Law's Mirror Image: 'Harms', 'Benefits', and the Uses and Limits of Analogy," 34 McGeorge Law Review 533 (2003). Reprinted in 2 ICFAI Journal of Intellectual Property Rights 29 (2003), revision reprinted in 3 ICFAI Journal of Intellectual Property Rights, No. 2 (May 2004).Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline The Economics of Copyright: Developments in Research and Analysis, Wendy J. Gordon & Richard Watt, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2003). Publisher Wendy J. Gordon, "Excuse and Justification in the Law of Fair Use: Transaction Costs Have Always Been Only Part of the Story," 50 Journal of the Copyright Society of the U.S.A. 149 (2003). Westlaw Wendy J. Gordon, "Intellectual Property Law," in Oxford Handbook of Legal Studies, Peter Cane & Mark Tushnet, eds., Oxford University Press, 617 (2003). Republished in Japanese, Tanabe Hideyuki, translator, 11 The Journal of Intellectual Property Law and Policy [Chitekizaisan Ho-seisakugaku Kenkyu] 1 (2006).BU Wendy J. Gordon, "Authors, Publishers and Public Goods: Trading Gold for Dross," in Symposium on Eldred v. Ashcroft, 36 Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review 159 (2002). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Comment on Data Protection Statutes and Bioinformatic Databases," 8 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 180 (2002). Wendy J. Gordon, "Excuse and Justification in the Law of Fair Use: Commodification and Market Perspectives," in The Commodification of Information 149, N. Elkin-Koren & N. W. Netanel, eds., Kluwer Law International (2002). Reprinted and updated in ICFAI Intellectual Property Rights Journal. Wendy J. Gordon, "Market Failure and Intellectual Property: A Response to Professor Lunney," 82 Boston University Law Review 1031 (2002). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Commentary on Economic and Ethical Reasons for Protecting Data," in International Intellectual Property Law and Policy 76-1, H. C. Hansen, ed., Juris Publishing (2001). Wendy J. Gordon & Tamar Frankel, "Introduction," in Symposium on Trust Relationships, 81 Boston University Law Review 321 (2001). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon et al., "The Constitutionality of Copyright Term Extension: How Long is Too Long?" in Symposium on Copyright Term Extension, 18 Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal 651 (2000). Westlaw Wendy J. Gordon & Robert G. Bone, "Copyright," in Encyclopedia of Law and Economics, B. Bouckaert & Gerrit De Geest, eds., Edward Elgar, 189 (2000). Reprinted in The Economics of Intellectual Property, R. Towse & R. W. Holzhauer eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2002). Wendy J. Gordon, "Copyright and Parody: Touring the Certainties of Property and Restitution," in Certitudes Du Droit (Certainty and the Law) , Ejan Mackaay, ed., Themis Publishing (2000). Wendy J. Gordon, "Fine-Tuning Tasini: Privileges of Electronic Distribution and Reproduction," 66 Brooklyn Law Review 473 (2000). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Introduction," in Symposium on Ralph Sharp Brown, Intellectual Property, and the Public Interest, 108 Yale Law Journal 1611 (1999). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Intellectual Property as Price Discrimination: Implications for Contract," in Symposium on the Internet and Legal Theory, 73 Chicago-Kent Law Review 1367 (1998). Reprinted in Intellectual Property Rights: Critical Concepts in Law, David Vaver, ed., Routledge (2006).Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon & Sam Postbrief, "On Commodifying Intangibles," review of James Boyle, Shamans, Software, and Spleens: Law and the Construction of the Information Society, Harvard University Press (1996) and Margaret Jane Radin, Contested Commodities, Harvard University Press (1996), 10 Yale Journal of Law and the Humanities 135 (1998). Westlaw Wendy J. Gordon, "On the Economics of Copyright, Restitution and 'Fair Use': Systemic Versus Case-by-Case Responses to Market Failure," 8 Journal of Law and Information Science 7 (1997). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, Article on Intellectual Property in Careers and the Minority Lawyer 32 (1996). Wendy J. Gordon, "Norms of Communication and Commodification," 144 University of Pennsylvania Law Review 2321 (1996). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Assertive Modesty: An Economics of Intangibles," in Symposium Toward a Third Intellectual Property Paradigm, 94 Columbia Law Review 2579 (1994). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Counter-Manifesto: Student-Edited Reviews and the Intellectual Properties of Scholarship," 61 University of Chicago Law Review 541 (1994). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon & Tamar Frankel, "Enforcing Coasian Bribes for Non-Price Benefits: A New Role for Restitution," 67 Southern California Law Review 1519 (1994). Reprinted in Restitution 347, Lionel D. Smith, ed., Ashgate Publishing (2001).Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon & A. Gowen, "Mandated Access: Commensurability and the Right to Say 'No'," 17 Hastings Communications and Entertainment Law Journal 225 (1994). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Systemische und fallbezogene Losungsansatze fur Marktversagen bei Immaterialgutern (Systemic and Case-by-Case Responses to Failures in Markets for Tangible Goods)," in Okonomische Analyse der Rechlichen Organisation von Innovationen , C. Ott & H. Schafer, eds., Verlag Mohr and Siebeck (1994). [German] [translated by Elisabeth Haberfellner] Wendy J. Gordon, "Virtual Reality, Appropriation, and Property Rights in Art: A Roundtable Discussion," 13 Cardozo Arts and Entertainment Law Journal 89 (1994). [Moderator]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Preface," in Symposium on Intellectual Property Law Theory, 68 Chicago-Kent Law Review 583 (1993). [co-editor]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "A Property Right in Self-Expression: Equality and Individualism in the Natural Law of Intellectual Property," 102 Yale Law Journal 1533 (1993). Republished in translation by X. Shanshan & Wangsui, under the direction of Professor Li Yang, Private Law (2008). [Chinese]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Truth and Consequences: The Force of Blackmail's Central Case," 141 University of Pennsylvania Law Review 1741 (1993). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Asymmetric Market Failure and Prisoner's Dilemma in Intellectual Property," 17 University of Dayton Law Review 853 (1992). Translated and published as "Fallas Asimetricas del Mercado y el Dilema del Prisionero en Propiedad Intelectual", Revista Latinoamericana de Propiedad Intelectual 2 (2011). [Spanish]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Of Harms and Benefits: Torts, Restitution, and Intellectual Property," 21 Journal of Legal Studies 449 (1992). Reprinted in 34 McGeorge Law Review 541 (2003).Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | BU Wendy J. Gordon, "On Owning Information: Intellectual Property and the Restitutionary Impulse," 78 Virginia Law Review 149 (1992). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Reality as Artifact: From Feist to Fair Use," 55 Law and Contemporary Problems 93 (1992). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Toward a Jurisprudence of Benefits: The Norms of Copyright and the Problem of Private Censorship," review of Paul Goldstein, Copyright: Principles, Law and Practice, Little Brown (1989), 57 University of Chicago Law Review 1009 (1990). Westlaw Wendy J. Gordon, "An Inquiry into the Merits of Copyright: The Challenges of Consistency, Consent and Encouragement Theory," 41 Stanford Law Review 1343 (1989). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Wendy J. Gordon, "Fair Use as Market Failure: A Structural and Economic Analysis of the Betamax Case and Its Predecessors," 82 Columbia Law Review 1600 (1982). Reprinted in 1 The Economics of Intellectual Property 377, R. Towse & R. W. Holzhauer, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2002).Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Wendy J. Gordon, "The Artist's Tax Dilemma," 1979 Estates, Gifts and Trusts Journal 20 (Mar-Apr 1979). Courses Copyright Law: LAW JD 952 4 credits Copyright law is a federal statutory regime that connects to crucial issues in culture, competition, and science. Copyright's rules deeply affect literature, music, visual art, software, information, entertainment, and how the internet operates. In addition to its substantive coverage, the course will train you in how to interpret and apply a complex statute and its judicial overlay. The course covers several topics. (1) A central issue is how to construe the exclusive rights that federal copyright law grants to creators of "original works of authorship". These include rights over copying, rights to control public performance, and rights over the public's ability to adapt existing works to new purposes. The course will also address (2) the subject-matters eligible for federal copyright, including the special difficulties posed by works that-- like computer programs or furniture design -- have 'functions' beyond conveying information and affecting human perceptions. Also on offer will be investigating (3) the nature of an infringement action, (4) the policies served and dis-served by copyright, and (5) the limitations and exceptions to copyright (such as the doctrine of "fair use") which can protect free speech and other goals from copyright over-reach. The course also examines some state rights, such as the 'right of publicity' and 'hot news misappropriation'. The course particularly explores how these state-law doctrines interact with, or are pre-empted by, federal copyright law. GRADING NOTICE: This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. SPRG 2020: LAW JD 952 A1 , Jan 13th to Apr 22nd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 10:40 am 12:40 pm 4 Jessica Silbey LAW 209 Intellectual Property Workshop (S): LAW JD 776 3 credits This seminar examines topics from the frontiers of intellectual property law ("IP" law). The class provides students with the opportunity to meet and interact with cutting-edge IP scholars who will be invited to speak. Students will read the speakers' research and works in progress, critique those writings in papers and/or in oral give-and-take discussions with the authors, and will be provided additional reading as appropriate. The goals of this seminar workshop are three: for students to deepen their substantive knowledge of IP law, for students to increase their abilities to participate in scholarly debate and potentially publish their own work, and for established scholars to improve their papers through the input of the workshop group. Ideally, students should have taken or be concurrently enrolled in a course in IP, Copyright, Patent, or Trademark. Students who have not taken such a course (or who are not enrolled currently in such a course) must obtain the permission of the instructor. The seminar offers a variety of writing options. Papers of suitable depth and scope are potentially capable of fulfilling both the IPIL Concentration writing requirement and the JD Upper Class Writing Requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 776 A1 , Jan 19th to Apr 20th 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue 10:40 am 12:40 pm 3 Wendy J. Gordon SPRG 2020: LAW JD 776 A1 , Jan 17th to Apr 17th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Fri 10:30 am 12:30 pm 3 Wendy J. Gordon LAW 410 Trademark and Unfair Competition: LAW JD 780 3 credits This course will examine the precepts of trademark and unfair competition law. We will investigate issues of ownership, protectability, and infringement in the context of words, symbols, slogans, product design and trade dress. The course also will handle related issues, depending on class interest, such as: trademark's common law roots, false and comparative advertising, parody, the right of publicity, the First Amendment, a comparison of how copyright and trademark treat 'functional' designs, the influence of misappropriation law and fears of free riding, and the challenge of applying trademark laws in the Internet context. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 780 A1 , Jan 20th to Apr 21st 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 2:30 pm 3:55 pm 3 Stacey Dogan FALL 2019: LAW JD 780 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 5th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 9:20 am 10:30 am 3 Wendy J. Gordon LAW 209 Fri 9:10 am 10:20 am 3 Wendy J. Gordon LAW 209 In the MediaMarch 21, 2019Harvard Is Sued Over Use of Photograph of SlaveWendy Gordon quoted in the Boston Globe. read moreSeptember 10, 2015Most Cited Private Law Articles Published in the Last 25 YearsWendy Gordon featured in New Private Law. read moreMarch 24, 2015The Jury in the Blurred Lines Case Was MisledWendy Gordon authors piece in Newsweek. read moreMarch 17, 2015How the Jury in Blurred Lines Case Was MisledWendy Gordon authors piece in The Conversation. read moreMarch 7, 2015Jury Weighs Blurred Lines CaseWendy Gordon quoted in Voice of America News. read moreMarch 2, 2015Restatement of the Law, CopyrightWendy Gordon chosen to serve as a adviser on American Law Institute project, "Restatement of the Law, Copyright" read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
