Legal History: The Year Books | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Legal History: The Year Books Faculty & ScholarshipLegal History: The Year Books Medieval English Legal History An Index and Paraphrase of Printed Year Book Reports, 12681535 compiled by David J. Seipp (Seipps Abridgement) The Year Books are the law reports of medieval England. The earliest examples date from about 1268, and the last in the printed series are for the year 1535. The Year Books are our principal source materials for the development of legal doctrines, concepts, and methods from 1290 to 1535, a period during which the common law developed into recognizable form. More than 22,000 individual reports or pleas have been printed, and others remain in manuscript. This database indexes all year book reports printed in the chronological series for all years between 1268 and 1535, and many of the year book reports printed only in alphabetical abridgements. Of these reports, all 6,901 from 1399 through 1535 have been fully indexed and paraphrased in this database. David J. Seipp, Professor of Law at Boston University, is the compiler of this database. His work is supported by the Ames Foundation of Harvard Law School. Carol F. Lee, of the District of Columbia Bar, has assisted greatly in the compilation of these records. A reprint of the 16781680 Vulgate edition of Year Books, on which this database is compiled, has been published by The Lawbook Exchange, Ltd. in 2007. Set: ISBN-13: 978-158477-781-6. ISBN-10: 1-58477-781-8 (details at www.lawbookexchange.com). A reprint of the 1577 edition of Anthony Fitzherberts La Graunde Abridgement has been published by The Lawbook Exchange, Ltd. in 2009. ISBN-13: 9781584778769; ISBN-10: 1584778768. To pronounce the compilers surname as he does, please rhyme the following couplet: Every Year Book set in type / Indexed by a guy named Seipp. The Master of the Library of Lincolns Inn wrote the following in 1800 in his Report to the Select Committee upon Public Records: There is yet another great Desideratum in regard to the Year Books, viz. a full and well-digested General Index to the whole. At present, such Indexes as there are in the printed Books are so dispersed in the different volumes, are of such unequal merit, and, in general, so scanty and imperfect, that they are of very little use; and the Lawyer generally finds it best to neglect them, and to resort to the different Abridgments of the Law, in order to discover what cases and passages in the Year Books may be applicable to the point he has occasion to examine. (p. 383) William Craddock Bolland, in his 1921 lectures on the Year Books, quoted; To read straight through the Year Books in their present condition, Sir Frederick Pollock wrote many years ago, is a task that no man living can be expected to undertake. (p. 45) Faculty & Scholarship Legal History: The Year Books Search Functionality Old Printed Editions Manuscript Listings Article and Book Bibliography BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
