Faculty & Scholarship at BU Law | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Faculty & Scholarship at BU LawOur faculty regularly rank at the top of Princeton Reviews Best Professors list, and command respect as leading scholars in a variety of legal topics across many fields of law. They author scholarly books published by leading academic presses and research papers published in esteemed law journals, contribute to legislative, judicial, and policy-making decisions in the US and abroad, and lecture at conferences and law schools around the world. In addition, BU Law welcomes professors from other law schools through its Visiting Assistant Professor and Visiting Scholars programs. Books, scholarly articles, book chapters, and other open-access research is available on the Scholarly Commons at Boston University School of Law. Faculty Profiles Faculty Profiles Learn about our faculty's publications, areas of scholarly interest, and the law school courses that they teach. View profiles Activities & Engagements Faculty give talks at legal conferences and law schools across the country. Faculty Spotlight Dean Onwuachi-Willig is committed to making the legal profession more inclusive, on campus and off. Faculty by Area of Interest View faculty by their field of scholarship and teaching. Select an Area of Interest Administrative Law Antitrust Law Banking & Financial Instruments Civil Litigation Civil Procedure Civil Rights Constitutional Law Consumer Law Contracts Corporate Law Corporate, Business & Transactional Law Criminal Law Criminal Law & Procedure Critical Race Theory Cyberlaw Cybersecurity Law Diversity & Inclusion Economics & Law Electronic Commerce Employment Law Environmental Law Evidence Law Family Law Federal Courts Foreign Relations & National Security Law Gender Matters Health Law Housing Law Human Rights Immigration Law & Policy Insurance Law Intellectual Property International & Comparative Law International Arbitration International Criminal Law Jurisprudence Law & Technology Laws of War Legal Ethics Legal History Legal Writing & Research Legislative Process Media & First Amendment Law Mergers & Acquisitions Privacy Property Law Public International Law Regulation Regulatory Design Religion & Law Risk Management and Compliance Securities Tax Law Torts Trial Advocacy U.S. Supreme Court Select an Area of Interest Administrative law deals with the actions of the governments administrative agencies, including rulemaking, adjudication, and regulatory enforcement. View All Administrative Law Faculty View All Antitrust Law Faculty This area of the law addresses government regulations of banks and the financial services industry. View All Banking & Financial Instruments Faculty The Civil Litigation Program focuses on civil matters, relating to employment, housing, disability, and family issues. View All Civil Litigation Faculty Civil Procedure encompasses the rules and standards of courts deciding civil lawsuits. View All Civil Procedure Faculty Civil rights are intended to ensure peoples physical and mental well being by providing protection from discrimination based on race, gender, national origin, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, or disability. View All Civil Rights Faculty Constitutional law addresses the scheme of government that the Constitution establishes, the powers that it confers, and the rights that it protects. View All Constitutional Law Faculty View All Consumer Law Faculty This area of the law examines the doctrine of contract formation, enforceability, performance, defenses, and remedies. View All Contracts Faculty View All Corporate Law Faculty Corporate, business, and transactional law pertains to the organization and governance of, transactions and other activities engaged in by, and the regulation of, business entities. View All Corporate, Business & Transactional Law Faculty View All Criminal Law Faculty Criminal Law & Procedure examines laws that prohibit actions that threaten and harm public safety and welfare, punishment for engaging in these prohibited acts, and the process through which these laws are enforced. View All Criminal Law & Procedure Faculty View All Critical Race Theory Faculty View All Cyberlaw Faculty View All Cybersecurity Law Faculty View All Diversity & Inclusion Faculty This discipline focuses on the economic analysis of law and use of economic concepts to explain the effects of laws. View All Economics & Law Faculty View All Electronic Commerce Faculty Employment Law include all areas of the law that touch upon the employee-employer relationship, including discrimination law and traditional labor law. View All Employment Law Faculty View All Environmental Law Faculty Evidence Law covers rules and legal principles governing the proof of facts in a legal proceeding and the type of proof needed to prevail in litigation. View All Evidence Law Faculty Family Law encompasses laws, court decisions, and constitutional provisions that relate to family relationships, rights, duties, and finances. View All Family Law Faculty The federal courts encompass the U.S. Supreme Court, federal appellate courts, and U.S. district courts. View All Federal Courts Faculty This legal area looks at the federal governments foreign relations powers and laws regarding national security and counterterrorism. View All Foreign Relations & National Security Law Faculty View All Gender Matters Faculty Health Law considers the regulation of health care, medical research, and the food and pharmaceutical industries, as well as legal issues relating to public health. View All Health Law Faculty View All Housing Law Faculty View All Human Rights Faculty Immigration Law covers the administrative and regulatory framework of this countrys immigration laws, as well as deportation, naturalization, and citizenship. View All Immigration Law & Policy Faculty View All Insurance Law Faculty Intellectual Property Law focuses on three core legal areas in patent, copyright, and trademark law, as well as the law of unfair competition and trade secrets. View All Intellectual Property Faculty This legal area includes laws governing the relations between nation-states, legal issues that arise in a variety of cross-border business transactions, and laws of countries outside the United States. View All International & Comparative Law Faculty View All International Arbitration Faculty View All International Criminal Law Faculty Jurisprudence is the theory or philosophy of law. View All Jurisprudence Faculty View All Law & Technology Faculty View All Laws of War Faculty Legal Ethics are a code of conduct governing proper professional behavior by members of the legal profession. View All Legal Ethics Faculty Legal History examines events of the past that pertain to all facets of the law, including analysis of particular laws, legal institutions, individuals who operate in the legal system, and the effect of law on society. View All Legal History Faculty The process of identifying and retrieving information necessary to support legal decision-making and the type of writing used by the legal community to express legal analysis, rights, and duties. View All Legal Writing & Research Faculty Legislative Process is the sequence of steps required for laws to move through the legislative system, from ideas to formally adopted legislation. View All Legislative Process Faculty View All Media & First Amendment Law Faculty View All Mergers & Acquisitions Faculty View All Privacy Faculty View All Property Law Faculty View All Public International Law Faculty View All Regulation Faculty View All Regulatory Design Faculty View All Religion & Law Faculty View All Risk Management and Compliance Faculty This area of the law pertains to statutes governing the issuance and selling of securities. View All Securities Faculty Tax Law is the body of laws governing taxation. View All Tax Law Faculty A tort is a wrongful act that results in injury to another's person, property, reputation, or the like, and for which the injured party is entitled to compensation. View All Torts Faculty Trial Advocacy includes the skills that attorneys use in trial proceedings, including selecting jurors, examining witnesses, and delivering opening statements and closing arguments. View All Trial Advocacy Faculty The U.S. Supreme Court is the highest federal court of the United States. View All U.S. Supreme Court Faculty Quantifying Faculty Quality # 22 law school faculty for scholarly excellence (Leiter Report - 2017) 1 of 20 US law schools ranked among the world's Top 100 law schools (2018, QS World Univ. Rankings) 60% of our tenured faculty have had their scholarship cited by federal courts # 20 in US News & World Reports 2021 ranking of US law schools Scholarly Projects & Research Initiatives Legal history. Health law. Technology policy. A signature strength of BU Law is the depth and breadth of the legal scholarship produced by our faculty. Legal History: The Year Books Professor Seipp has catalogued the law reports of medieval England from 1268 to 1535. CARB-X Global partnership to combat antibiotic resistant bacteria is based at BU Law and led by Professor Outterson. Technology & Policy Research Initiative Research on tech's impact on society and on policies that shape that impact. BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
