Jonathan Feingold | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Jonathan Feingold Associate Professor BA, Vassar College JD, UCLA School of Law Areas of Interest Affirmative Action, Anti-discrimination Law, Critical Race Theory, Education Law, Property Law, Social Psychology Contact Office 1601D Email jfeingol@bu.edu Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Jonathan Feingolds scholarship explores the relationship between race, law, and the mind sciences. Much of his recent research has interrogated how and why various American legal regimes, including equal protection doctrine, function to reinforce and reproduce racial hierarchy. His work has appeared or is forthcoming in the California Law Review, Northwestern University Law Review, Utah Law Review, and Temple Law Review. Representative publications include SFFA v. Harvard: How Affirmative Action Myths Mask White Bonus,Hidden in Plain Sight: a More Compelling Case for Diversity,Eyes Wide Open: What Social Science Can Tell Us About the Supreme Courts Use of Social Science(with Evelyn Carter), and Defusing Implicit Bias(with Karen Lorang). From 2015 through 2019, Feingold served as special assistant to the vice chancellor for equity, diversity & inclusion at the University of California, Los Angeles and was a research fellow in BruinX, a research and development team within the Office of Equity, Diversity & Inclusion. He is the co-founder of illuminate diversity consulting, a private consulting firm that employs an interdisciplinary approach to foster inclusion through candid, data-driven conversation. Feingold received his BA from Vassar College and holds a JD from UCLA School of Law, where he graduated with a specialization in critical race studies. After law school, he joined Sidley Austin LLP as an associate in the firms Los Angeles office. He then clerked for the Hon. Richard C. Wesley of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the Hon. Dale S. Fischer of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. In 2014, he received a California Lawyer Attorneys of the Year Award for work done in connection withRodriguez v. Robbins, a case concerning immigrant detainees rights to bond hearings. Publications Jonathan Feingold, All (Poor) Lives Matter": How Class-Not-Race Logic Reinscribes Race and Class Privilege," University of Chicago Law Review Online 47 (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold, "Diversity Drift," 9 Wake Forest Law Review Online 14 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold, "Equal Protection Design Defects," 91 Temple Law Review 513 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold, "Hidden in Plain Sight: A More Compelling Case for Diversity," 2019 Utah Law Review 59 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold, "SFFA v. Harvard: How Affirmative Action Myths Mask White Bonus," 107 California Law Review 707 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold & Evelyn Carter, "Eyes Wide Open: What Social Science Can Tell Us About the Supreme Court's Use of Social Science," 112 Northwestern University Law Review 1689 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold & Douglas Souza, "Measuring the Racial Unevenness of Law School," 15 Berkeley Journal of African-American Law & Policy 71 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold & Karen Lorang, "Defusing Implicit Bias," 59 UCLA Law Review Discourse 210 (2012). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Jonathan Feingold, "Racing Towards Colorblindness: Stereotype Threat and the Myth of Meritocracy," 3 Georgetown Journal of Law and Modern Critical Race Perspectives 231 (2011). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Courses Critical Race Theory Colloquium(S): LAW JD 731 3 credits The Critical Race Theory Colloquium employs a workshop-format that enables students to engage leading scholars in the field of Critical Race Theory. The first session will involve a general overview of Critical Race Theory. During six of the remaining meetings, an invited scholar will present a work-in-progress for discussion. Students will write a short reaction paper for each of the works presented. The student papers will be given to workshop presenters before each workshop. Final grades depend on the reaction papers, class participation, and attendance. NOTE: This class does not satisfy the upper-class writing requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. FALL 2020: LAW JD 731 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 3rd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Thu 4:20 pm 6:20 pm 3 Jonathan Feingold LAW 211 FALL 2019: LAW JD 731 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 3rd 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue 4:20 pm 6:20 pm 3 Gowder LAW 417 In the MediaJune 27, 2020California Voters Will Weigh in on Affirmative Action in November. Heres What that Means for the Rest of the CountryJonathan Feingold quoted. read moreJune 1, 2020COVID-19 Makes the Case for Affirmative ActionPOV by Jonathan Feingold. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
