Visiting Scholars Program | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Visiting Scholars ProgramBU Law is very accommodating of visiting scholars. Each year scholars and researchers from around the world join our community to conduct research under the guidance of or in collaboration with our faculty members. Most are junior or senior members of law faculties outside the US. Faculty & ScholarshipVisiting Scholars Program Conduct research, observe classes, go to workshops As a visiting scholar, youll benefit from exchanging ideas with our faculty, other visiting scholars, and the significant number of lawyers and jurists from around the world who are enrolled in graduate legal studies. Youll have full access to theBU Law Libraries, including your own assigned library carrel, to pursue your research. Space permitting, you are also invited to observe classes and attendfaculty workshopsand other academic events. Visits range from a few weeks to a full year and may start at any time. Application process and selection criteria BU Laws Visiting Scholar Program is highly selective. We receive a large number of inquiries, but invite only eight scholars to be in residence at any given time. In reviewing inquiries, the Visiting Scholars Committee takes into account each prospective visitors educational and experiential background, scholarly achievements, area of academic interest, specific research proposal, institutional affiliations, and English language skills. We also consider the availability and interest of a BU Law faculty member to supervise or collaborate in the proposed research project or otherwise mentor the prospective visitor. You may initiate contacts with appropriate faculty members to try to arrange for a suitable relationship. We expect that candidates will limit their contacts only to faculty members whose scholarship relates to the candidates proposed research agenda. All visiting scholar candidates must submit a formal application to the Visiting Scholar Committee. Completed applications may be submitted via email to lawvs@bu.edu. A complete application consists of the following materials. (A formal application must be submitted even if the candidate has sent some or all of these materials to a faculty member): A rsum or curriculum vitae A description of the proposed research, including a statement explaining why BU Law is an appropriate setting for the work The name of the BU Law faculty member or members whom you propose to serve as your mentor. (If a BU Law faculty member has agreed to serve as your mentor, you should provide a letter from that faculty member indicating his or her willingness to do so.) A letter of recommendation from an academic colleague The proposed length and dates of the visit If you are interested in observing a particular course, a statement indicating the course and the reasons for your interest If English is not your native language you should describe your experience and training in English and the degree of your proficiency with the English language. English proficiency is a significant factor in granting invitations. TOEFL and academic records may also be requested. In appropriate circumstances, we may for an oral interview typically by telephone of a prospective visiting scholar by the prospective faculty mentor. All inquiries, applications, and supporting materials should be sent to: Visiting Scholars Committee Boston University School of Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 lawvs@bu.edu Each visiting scholar application is reviewed by the Visiting Scholars Committee. If the candidate has not initiated contact with an appropriate faculty member or if an identified faculty member is not available to supervise the candidates research, the Committee may ask members of the faculty who have compatible research interests to consider the application. Relationships between a visiting scholars and BU Law faculty mentors range from close collaboration to casual oversight. It is important that the nature and scope of the relationship, as well as the specifics of the research project, be worked out by the two before the Committee takes final action on the application. Visiting Scholar Fee and Visas Visiting Scholars pay a fee of $5,000 for an academic year. In cases where the length of stay will be less than a full academic year, the fee is $2,500 per semester or any part thereof. BU Law does not waive this fee. Most visitors are supported by funding sources in their home countries or through sabbatical leave salaries from their home institutions. No financial aid, stipends, or housing are available. If you are invited to visit, well provide you with information about visas and other important details. Youll also be asked to supply financial documentation to support your visa application. Such documents must be originals, in English, which certify financial ability in terms of US dollars. Please be aware that, unless your visit coincides with the academic year, finding reasonably affordable short-term housing in the Boston area may be difficult. School of Law Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
