Neil S. Hecht | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Neil S. Hecht Professor of Law Emeritus B.A. and Rabbinical Degree, Yeshiva University J.D., Yale University J.S.D., Columbia University Contact Office Room 1134B Email nshecht@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3134 Full CV Biography After almost 50 years as a Professor of Law and 30 years as Founding Director of its Institute of Jewish Law, Neil Hecht retired and assumed Emeritus status. Over the years he wrote and edited a variety of treatises, monographs and teaching materials, totaling 36 volumes. Among these works areJewish Jurisprudence; Selected Topics in Jewish Law;Controversy and Dialogue in Halakhik Sources;Jewish Law in Context; The Jewish Law Annual; Windows onto Jewish Legal Culture; and An Introduction to the History and Sources of Jewish Law (Oxford University Press). From 1985 to 1986, Professor Hecht was the Visiting Gruss Professor of Talmudic Civil Law at New York University School of Law. He has also served as co-director of the Joint Project in Jewish Legal Bioethics, a collaborative initiative of the Institute of Jewish Law and Boston Universitys Schools of Medicine and Public Health. His many professional and public service activities include serving on the Board of Directors of the International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists, as chair of the Jewish Law Section of the Association of American Law Schools (which he helped found in 1992) and as a member of the American Law Institute. Professor Hecht has also researched and published in the areas of evidence and property. HisLong-Term Lease Planning and Draftingwas selected as a sourcebook for real estate transaction seminars by the American Law Institute/American Bar Association Committee on Continuing Education. He was honored by the Ashmolean Museum of Oxford University, which has displayed a plaque next to its Greek Metrological Relief in recognition of his published solution, based upon Jewish law, to the long-standing riddle surrounding the statue. In 2002, he was the recipient of the Silver Shingle Award for distinguished service to the School of Law, and in 2008 he won the Michael Melton Award for Excellence in Teaching. Yeshiva University awarded him its Centennial Rabbinic Award in 1986 and its Bernard Revel Memorial Award in 1981. Upon his retirement, the Faculty of Law of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem published a festschrift in his honor (The Jewish Law Annual, Volume 19) honoring him as A Man of Vision And Action. Publications Windows onto Jewish Legal Culture: Fourteen Exploratory Essays (v.1 and v.2), Neil Hecht, Hanina Ben-Menahem & Arye Edrei, eds., Routledge (2012). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 18), Neil Hecht, ed., Routledge (2009). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 17), Neil Hecht, ed., Routledge (2007). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 16), Neil Hecht, ed., Routledge (2006). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Controversy and Dialogue in the Jewish Tradition: A Reader, Neil Hecht, Hanina Ben-Menahem & Shai Wosner, eds., Routledge (2005). The Jewish Law Annual (volume 15), Neil Hecht, ed., Routledge (2004). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 14), Neil Hecht, ed., Routledge (2003). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Controversy and Dialogue in Halakhic Sources (volume 3), Neil Hecht, Hanina Ben-Menahem & Shai Wosner, eds., The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (2002). Neil Hecht, Tzvi Marx, Disability in Jewish Law, v.3 Jewish Law in Context, Routledge (2001). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 13), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (2000). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Unjust Enrichment, v.7 Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, eds., Open University (1999). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Authority, Process and Method: Studies in Jewish Law, v.2 Jewish Law in Context, Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, eds., Harwood Academic Publishers (1998). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law and the Institute for Research in Jewish Law, Faculty of Law, Hebrew University of Jerusalem] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 12), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1997). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] An Introduction to the History and Sources of Jewish Law, Neil Hecht, ed., Oxford University Press (1996). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht, Daniel B. Sinclair, Treating the Critically Ill, v.5 Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Open University of Israel Publishing House (1995). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht, Daniel Sinclair, Abortion, v.4 Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Open University of Israel Publishing House (1995). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Controversy and Dialogue in Halakhic Sources (volume 2), Neil Hecht, Hanina Ben-Menahem & Shai Wosner, eds., The Institute of Jewish Law at Boston University School of Law (1994). Neil Hecht, Hanina Ben-Menahem, Law and Equity, v.3 Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Open University of Israel Publishing House (1994). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 11), Neil Hecht, ed., The Institute of Jewish Law Harwood Academic Publishers (1994). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht, Jewish Law Association Studies VII: Proceedings of the 1992 Paris Conference, Scholars Press (1994). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht, Shimshon Ettinger, Self-Help, v.6 Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Open University of Israel Publishing House (1994). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 10), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1993). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht, "Tribute to Professor Austin T. Stickells," 73 Boston University Law Review 142 (1993). Controversy and Dialogue in Halakhic Sources (volume 1), Neil Hecht, Hanina Ben-Menahem & Shai Wosner, eds., The Institute of Jewish Law at Boston University School of Law (1992). The Jewish Law Annual (volume 9), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1991). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht, "Foreword," in Ben-Mendahem, Judicial Deviation in Talmudic Law , v.1 Jewish Law in Context, Harwood Academic Publishers (1990). Hanina Ben-Mendahem, Judicial Deviation in Talmudic Law, v.1 Jewish Law in Context, Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1990). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 8), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1989). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Hanina Ben-Menahem, Exigency Authority of Courts, v.2 permanent edition Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, eds., Open University of Israel Publishing House (1988). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Hanina Ben-Menahem, Legal Formalism in the Halakhah, v.1 permanent edition Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, eds., Open University of Israel Publishing House (1988). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 7), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1988). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] The Jewish Law Annual (volume 6), Neil Hecht, ed., Harwood Academic Publishers (1987). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Hanina Ben-Menahem, Exigency Authority of Courts, v.2 temporary edition Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, eds., Everyman's University (1986). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht & Emanuel B. Quint, Jewish Jurisprudence: Its Sources and Modern Applications (volume 2), Harwood Academic Publishers (1986). The Jewish Law Annual (volume 5), Neil Hecht, ed., E.J. Brill (1986). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Hanina Ben-Menahem, Legal Formalism in the Halakhah, v.1 temporary edition Selected Topics in Jewish Law, Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, eds., Everyman's University (1985). [published under the auspices of the Institute of Jewish Law, Boston University School of Law] Neil Hecht & Hanina Ben-Menahem, "A Modest Addendum to 'The Greek Metrological Relief in Oxford," 65 The Antiquaries Journal 139 (1985). Neil Hecht & Emanuel B. Quint, "Exigency Jurisdiction Under Jewish Law," 9 Dine Israel 27 (1981). Neil Hecht & Emanuel B. Quint, Jewish Jurisprudence: Its Sources and Modern Applications(volume 1), Harwood Academic Publishers (1980). Neil Hecht & William M. Pinzler, "Rebutting Presumptions: Order Out of Chaos," 58 Boston University Law Review 527 (1978). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Neil Hecht, Long Term Lease Planning and Drafting, W.H. Anderson Co. (1974). Neil Hecht, "Variable Rental Provisions in Long Term Ground Leases," 72 Columbia Law Review 625 (1972). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Neil Hecht, "From Seisin to Sit-In: Evolving Property Concepts," 44 Boston University Law Review 435 (1964). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Neil Hecht, "State Taxation of Bankruptcy Liquidations: Federalism Misconceived," 67 Yale Law Journal 335 (1957). View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
