Christopher Robertson | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Christopher Robertson Professor of Law BA, Southeast Missouri State University, summa cum laude PhD & MA, Washington University in St. Louis JD, Harvard Law School, magna cum laude Areas of Interest Civil Litigation, Constitutional Law, Diversity & Inclusion, Evidence Law, Health Law, Law & Technology, Legal Ethics, Torts Contact Office 1402C Email ctr00@bu.edu Full CV Biography Christopher Robertson joined the BU Law faculty in 2020 as a tenured professor and N. Neal Pike Scholar in Health & Disability Law. Robertson previously served as associate dean for research and innovation and professor of law at the University of Arizona. Professor Robertson is an expert in health law, institutional design, and decision making. His wide-ranging work includes torts, bioethics, professional responsibility, conflicts of interests, criminal justice, evidence, the First Amendment, racial disparities, and corruption. In 2019, Harvard University Press published Exposed: Why Our Health Insurance is Incomplete and What Can be Done About It. Robertson has co-edited three books, Nudging Health: Behavioral Economics and Health Law (2016), Blinding as a Solution to Bias: Strengthening Biomedical Science, Forensic Science, and Law (2016), and Innovation and Protection: The Future of Medical Device Regulation (forthcoming 2021). Acting in legal reform movements, in 2020 Robertson undertook a yearlong project to help the board of trustees of the California State Bar reduce racial disparities in the attorney discipline system. He previously served as reporter for the Health Law Monitoring Committee of the Uniform Law Commission. For over a decade, he has served on the clinical ethics committee of an academic medical center. Working to reform legal education, Robertson is leading the development of JD-Next, a national program designed to reduce disparities in preparation for law school and to provide a more reliable predictor of student success. In its second year, the program enrolled over 1100 students nationwide. With ETS, Robertson also conducted the first major study of the validity of the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) as an admissions test for JD programs, which led to 60+ schools, including Harvard, Yale, and BU now relying on the exam. Robertson has also pioneered legal education for undergraduates and non-lawyer professionals. Professor Robertson has served as a visiting professor at Harvard Law School, NYU Law, and the London School of Economics, and as a visiting scholar at the Brown University Policy Lab. He is affiliated with the Petrie Flom Center for Health Care Policy, Bioethics and Biotechnology at Harvard, the NYU Langone Health Working Group on Compassionate Use and Pre-Approval Access (CUPA), and the University of Arizonas Innovation for Justice program. Robertsons legal practice has focused on complex litigation involving medical and scientific disputes, and he continues to work with litigators through his firm, Hugo Analytics. Publications Christopher Robertson, Andy Yuan, Wendan Zhang & Keith Joiner, "Distinguishing Moral Hazard from Access for High-Cost Healthcare under Insurance," 15 PLOS ONE e0231768 (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, K Aleks Schaefer, Daniel Scheitrum, Sergio Puig & Keith Joiner, "Indemnifying Precaution: Economic Insights for Regulation of a Highly Infectious Disease," 7 Journal of Law and the Biosciences (forthcoming). Scholarly Commons | SSRN | Publisher Christopher Robertson, Kelly McBride Folkers & Alison Bateman-House, "Paying for Unapproved Medical Products," 11 Wake Forest Journal of Law & Policy 85 (2020). Scholarly Commons | SSRN Christopher Robertson & Tara Sklar, "Telehealth for an Aging Population: How Can Law Influence Adoption Among Providers, Payors, and Patients?" 46 American Journal of Law and Medicine 311 (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson & Tara Sklar, "Affordability Boards: The States New Fix for Drug Pricing," 381 New England Journal of Medicine 1301 (2019). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, Tara Sklar, Richard Carmona & Kathie Insel, "Digital Health Privacy in Active-Aging Settings: Will the Law Let You Age Well?" 18 Journal on Active Aging 34 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, Exposed: Why Our Health Insurance Is Incomplete and What Can Be Done about It, Harvard University Press (2019). David Yokum, Christopher Robertson & Matt Palmer, "The Inability to Self-Diagnose Bias," 96 Denver Law Review 869 (2019). Excerpt reprinted: The Civil Jury Project at NYU School of Law Newsletter (December 2019) (source). Excerpt reprinted: Voir Dire Magazine, American Board of Trial Advocates (January 2020).SSRN Christopher Robertson, Shima Baradaran Baughman & Megan Wright, "Race and Class: A Randomized Experiment with Prosecutors," 16 Journal of Empirical Legal Studies 807 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, Nir Eyal & Paul Romain, "Can Rationing Through Inconvenience Be Ethical?" 48 Hastings Center Report 10 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson & Alison Bateman-House, "The Federal Right to Try Act of 2017A Wrong Turn for Access to Investigational Drugs and the Path Forward," 178 JAMA Internal Medicine 321 (2018). Publisher Victor Laurion & Christopher Robertson, "Ideology Meets Reality: What Works and What Doesn't in Patient Exposure to Health Care Costs," 15 Indiana Health Law Review 43 (2018). SSRN Elizabeth Hall-Lipsy, Leila Barraza & Christopher Robertson, "Practice-Based Research Networks and the Mandate for Real-World Evidence," 44 American Journal of Law and Medicine 219 (2018). SSRN Bernard Chao, Ian Farrell, Christopher Robertson & Catherine Durso, "Why Courts Fail to Protect Privacy: Race, Age, Bias, and Technology," 106 California Law Review 263 (2018). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "Will Courts Allow States to Regulate Drug Prices?" 379 New England Journal of Medicine 1000 (2018). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson & D. Alex Winkelman, "Incentives, Lies, and Disclosure," 20 University of Pennsylvania Journal of Constitutional Law 33 (2017). SSRN John Campbell, Bernard Chao & Christopher Robertson, "Time Is Money: An Empirical Assessment of Non-Economic Damages Arguments," 95 Washington University School of Law Review 1 (2017). SSRN Christopher Robertson & Victor Laurion, "Tip of the Iceberg II: How the Intended-Uses Principle Produces Medical Knowledge and Protects Liberty," 11 New York University Journal of Law & Liberty 770 (2017). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "The Tip of the Iceberg: A First Amendment Right to Promote Drugs Off-Label," 78 Ohio State Law Journal 1019 (2017). SSRN Christopher Robertson, D. Alex Winkelman, Kelly Bergstrand & Darren Modzelewski, "The Appearance and the Reality ofQuid Pro QuoCorruption: An Empirical Investigation," 8 Journal of Legal Analysis 375 (2016). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, Jonathan Loe & D. Alex Winkelman, "An Assessment of the Human Subjects Protection Review Process for Exempt Research," 44 Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 481 (2016). Publisher Blinding as a Solution to Bias: Strengthening Biomedical Science, Forensic Science, and Law, Christopher Robertson & Aaron S. Kesselheim, eds., Elsevier (2016). John Campbell, Bernard Chao, Christopher Robertson & David Yokum, "CounteringthePlaintiffsAnchor: Jury Simulations to Evaluate Damages Arguments," 101 Iowa Law Review 543 (2016). SSRN Christopher Robertson & Jonathan Loe, "Federal Government's Proposed Expansion of Regulation of Biospecimen Research Should Be Reconsidered," 14 Biopreservation and Biobanking 447 (2016). Publisher Christopher Robertson, Christina Cutshaw, Steffie Woolhandler & David Himmelstein, "Medical Causes and Consequences of Home Foreclosures," 46 International Journal of Health Services 36 (2016). Publisher Christopher Robertson, Megan Wright & David Yokum, "Mock Juror and Jury Assessments of Blinded Expert Witnesses," in Blinding as a Solution to Bias: Strengthening Biomedical Science, Forensic Science, and Law , Christopher Robertson & Aaron S. Kesselheim, eds., Elsevier (2016). Christopher Robertson & Marc A. Rodwin, "Money Blinding as a Solution to Industry Influence in Biomedical Science," in Blinding as a Solution to Bias: Strengthening Biomedical Science, Forensic Science, and Law , Christopher Robertson & Aaron S. Kesselheim, eds., Elsevier (2016). Christopher Robertson & Aaron S. Kesselheim, "Regulating Off-Label Promotion A Critical Test," 375 New England Journal of Medicine 2313 (2016). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, "Selection Bias and Disclosure Discretion for Blinded Experts," in Blinding as a Solution to Bias: Strengthening Biomedical Science, Forensic Science, and Law , Christopher Robertson & Aaron S. Kesselheim, eds., Elsevier (2016). Christopher Robertson, "Vaccines and Airline Travel: A Federal Role to Protect the Public Health," 42 American Journal of Law & Medicine 543 (2016). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, "Why Blinding? And How? A Theory of Blinding Applied to Institutional Corruption," in Blinding as a Solution to Bias: Strengthening Biomedical Science, Forensic Science, and Law , Christopher Robertson & Aaron S. Kesselheim, eds., Elsevier (2016). Christopher Robertson, Sunita Sah & Shima Baradaran Baughman, "Blinding Prosecutors to Defendants Race: A Policy Proposal to Reduce Unconscious Bias in the Criminal Justice System," 2 Behavioral Science & Policy 83 (2015). Reprinted in: Lee E. Ross, Ed., Readings in Cultural Diversity and Criminal Justice, (Cognella Academic Publishing, 2020)SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, "The FDCA as the Test for Truth of Promotional Claims," in FDA in the Twenty-First Century: The Challenges of Regulating Drugs and New Technologies , Holly Fernandez Lynch & I. Glenn Cohen, eds., Columbia University Press (2015). Christopher Robertson, "New DTCA Guidance Enough to Empower Consumers?" 373 New England Journal of Medicine 1085 (2015). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, Athan Papailiou & David Yokum, "The Novel New Jersey Eyewitness Instruction Induces Skepticism but Not Sensitivity," 10 PLOS ONE e0142695 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, "Preserving Public Trust and Demanding Accountability (Introduction to Part II)," in FDA in the Twenty-First Century: The Challenges of Regulating Drugs and New Technologies , Holly Fernandez Lynch & I. Glenn Cohen, eds., Columbia University Press (2015). Christopher Robertson, "Scaling Cost-Sharing to Wages: How Employers CanReduce Health Spending and Provide Greater Economic Security," 14 Yale Journal of Health Policy, Law & Ethics 239 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, "Should Patient Responsibility for Costs Change the Doctor-Patient Relationship?" 50 Wake Forest Law Review 363 (2015). SSRN D. Alex Winkelman, Lisette Cole, Shelby Thompson, David Yokum & Christopher Robertson, "AnEmpiricalMethodforHarmlessError," 46 Arizona Law Review 1405 (2014). SSRN Christopher Robertson & David Yokum, "The Burden of Deciding for Yourself: The Disutility Caused by Out-of-Pocket Healthcare Spending," 11 Indiana Health Law Review 609 (2014). SSRN Roy Spece, David Yokum, Andrea-Gale Okoro & Christopher Robertson, "An Empirical Method for Materiality: Would Conflict of Interest Disclosures Change Patient Decisions?" 40 American Journal of Law and Medicine 253 (2014). SSRN Christopher Robertson, Jonathan Lewin, Daniel Durand, Gautam Agarwal, Richard Duszak Jr, Elizabeth Krupinski, Jason Itri, Anthony Fotenos, Brent Savoie & Alexander Ding, "Expert Witness Blinding Strategies to Mitigate Bias in Radiology Malpractice Cases: AComprehensive Review of the Literature," 11 Journal of the American College of Radiology 868 (2014). Publisher Christopher Robertson & Megan Wright, "Heterogeneity in IRB Policies with Regard to Disclosures About Payment for Participation in Recruitment Materials," 42 Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 375 (2014). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, David Yokum & Megan Wright, "Perceptions of Efficacy, Morality, and Politics of Potential Cadaveric Organ-Transplantation Reforms," 77 Law & Contemporary Problems 101 (2014). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "The Presumption Against Expensive Health Care Consumption," 49 Tulsa Law Review 627 (2014). SSRN Christopher Robertson, David Yokum, Nimish Sheth & Keith Joiner, "A Randomized Experiment of the Split Benefit Health Insurance Reform To Reduce High-Cost, Low-Value Consumption," 1 Innovation & Entrepreneurship in Health 5 (2014). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, "When Truth Cannot Be Presumed: The Regulation of Drug Promotion UnderanExpanding First Amendment," 94 Boston University Law Review 545 (2014). SSRN Aaron S. Kesselheim, Christopher Robertson, Kent Siri, Puneet Batra & Jessica Franklin, "Distributions of Industry Payments to Massachusetts Physicians," 368 New England Journal of Medicine 2049 (2013). Christopher Robertson, "The Split Benefit: The Painless Way to Put Skin Back in the Health Care Game," 98 Cornell Law Review 921 (2013). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "Contingent Compensation of Post-Conviction Counsel: A Modest Proposal to Identify Meritorious Claims and Reduce Wasteful Government Spending," 64 Maine Law Review 513 (2012). SSRN Christopher Robertson & David Yokum, "The Effect of Blinded Experts on Jurors Verdicts," 9 Journal of Empirical Legal Studies 765 (2012). SSRN Christopher Robertson, Susannah Rose & Aaron S. Kesselheim, "Effect of Financial Relationships on the Behavior of Healthcare Professionals," 40 Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 452 (2012). Publisher Aaron S. Kesselheim, Christopher Robertson, Jessica Myers, Susannah Rose, Victoria Gillet, Kathryn Ross, Robert Glynn, Steven Joffe & Jerry Avorn, "A Randomized Study of How Physicians Interpret Research Funding Disclosures," 369 New England Journal of Medicine 1119 (2012). Christopher Robertson, "Biased Advice," 60 Emory Law Journal 653 (2011). (accepted by peer review, Conference on Empirical Legal Studies)SSRN Christopher Robertson, "The Money Blind: How to Stop Industry Bias in Biomedical Science, Without Violating the First Amendment," 37 American Journal of Law and Medicine 358 (2011). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "Blind Expertise," 85 New York University Law Review 174 (2010). SSRN Christopher Robertson, Richard Egelhof & Michael Hoke, "Get Sick, Get Out: The Medical Causes of Home Mortgage Foreclosures," 18 Health Matrix 65 (2008). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "From Free Riders to Fairness: A Cooperative System for Organ Transplantation," 48 Jurimetrics Journal 1 (2007). SSRN Christopher Robertson, "The Ethics of Research that May Disadvantage Others," Ethics & Human Research (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Christopher Robertson, Susannah Rose, Sunita Sah, Raed Dweik, Cory Schmidt, MaryBeth Mercer, Ariane Mitchum, Michael Kattan & Matthew Karafa, "Patient Responses to Physician Disclosures of Industry Conflicts of Interest: A Randomized Field Experiment," Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes (forthcoming). Publisher Christopher Robertson & Kelly Bergstrand, "Threat and Emotions: Mobilizing and Attitudinal Outcomes of a Ballistic Missile Scare," Social Problems (forthcoming). In the MediaDecember 11, 2020Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel?Christopher Robertson is quoted. read moreDecember 3, 2020What Are Emergency Use Authorizations, And Do They Guarantee That a Vaccine or Drug is Safe?A piece by Christopher Robertson. read moreNovember 10, 2020Conservatives Backed the Ideas Behind Obamacare, So How Did They Come to Hate It?A piece by Christopher Robertson. read moreOctober 20, 2020Incredibly Consequential: 10 Things to Know About Health Care and the Election in ArizonaChristopher Robertson is quoted. read moreJuly 31, 2020Brigham President Resigns from Moderna Board after Conflict of Interest Questions RaisedChristopher Robertson quoted. read moreJuly 27, 2020We Need an Independent Public Health AgencyAn op-ed by Christopher Robertson. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
