David H. Webber | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: David H. Webber Associate Dean for Intellectual Life Professor of Law Areas of Interest Civil Procedure, Corporate, Business & Transactional Law, Mergers & Acquisitions, Securities, Shareholder Activism & Litigation Contact Office 1601H Email dhwebber@bu.edu Phone 617-358-6194 Full CVGoogle Scholar Page Biography David H. Webber is the author of the critically-acclaimed book, The Rise of the Working-Class Shareholder: Labors Last Best Weapon, published by Harvard University Press. Webber toured extensively for the book and published op-eds about it in the New York Times,the Washington Post, the Los Angeles Times,and elsewhere. It was reviewed or otherwise covered in theNew York Review of Books, the Financial Times (twice),Publishers Weekly,Bloomberg Radio, CSPANs BookTV, Forbes, the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation, theHarvard OnLabor blog,Cornell Universitys ILR Review,Rorotoko, de Volkskrant, Calcalist, Splinter News, The National Review and Dissent.The book will be translated and published in Korea in 2020.Webber has been interviewed on a range of corporate governance matters and has advised policymakers on pension and investment issues. Webber co-edited a second book, Research Handbook on Representative Shareholder Litigation (Elgar), published in November 2018. He has published scholarly articles in the New York University Law Review, the Northwestern University Law Review, and the Vanderbilt Law Review and has presented his research at the Harvard Stanford Yale Junior Faculty Forum, the Conference on Empirical Legal Studies, and the American Law and Economics Association conference. Webber is the winner of Boston University School of Laws 2017 Michael Melton Award for Teaching Excellence, and the 2020 deans award for service to the law school. He also co-teaches the Pensions and Capital Stewardship course for the Harvard Trade Union program at Harvard Law School.He is a graduate of Columbia and NYU Law School, where he was an editor for the law review. Watch: Professor David Webber discusses The Rise of the Working Class Shareholder: Labors Last Best Weapon Activities & Engagements Dec 16 2020 Speaker Meet the Author: Rise of the Working Class Shareholder Hosted by the Zhejiang University International Business School, Hangzhou, China View All Activities & Engagements Publications David Webber, Michal Barzuza & Quinn Curtis, "Shareholder Value(s): Index Fund Activism and the New Millennial Corporate Governance," 93 Southern California Law Review (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons David Webber, "The Other Janus and the Future of Labors Capital," 72 Vanderbilt Law Review 2087 (2019). Publisher David Webber, "Reforming Pensions While Retaining Shareholder Voice," in Symposium Institutional Investor Activism in the 21st Century: Responses to a Changing Landscape, 99 Boston University Law Review 1001 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Research Handbook on Representative Shareholder Litigation, David Webber, Sean Griffith, Jessica Erickson & Verity Winship, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2018). David Webber, The Rise of the Working Class Shareholder: Labors Last Best Weapon, Harvard University Press (2018). David Webber, "Lead Plaintiffs and Lead Counsel in Deal Litigation," in Research Handbook on Mergers & Acquisitions 319, Claire A. Hill & Steven D. Solomon, eds., Edward Elgar (2016). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons David Webber & Adam Badawi, "Does the Quality of the Plaintiffs Law Firm Matter in Deal Litigation?" 41 Journal of Corporation Law 359 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons David Webber, "Shareholder Litigation Without Class Actions," 57 Arizona Law Review 201 (2015). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons David Webber, "Private Policing of Mergers & Acquisitions: An Empirical Assessment of Institutional Lead Plaintiffs in Transactional Class and Derivative Actions," 38 Delaware Journal of Corporate Law 907 (2014). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons David Webber, "The Use and Abuse of Labor's Capital," 89 New York University Law Review 2106 (2014). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons David Webber, "The Plight of the Individual Investor in Securities Class Actions," 106 Northwestern University Law Review 157 (2012). SSRN | Scholarly Commons David Webber, "Is 'Pay-to-Play' Driving Public Pension Fund Activism in Securities Class Actions? An Empirical Study," 90 Boston University Law Review 2031 (2010). Reprinted in 2011 Securities Law Review 5:1 and in 53:1 Corporate Practice Commentator 219 (2011).SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Courses Securities Regulation: LAW JD 883 4 credits This course offers an introduction to federal securities regulation under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We will examine how the securities laws shape the process by which companies raise capital through IPOs, public offerings, and private placements. We will also focus on the mandatory disclosure regime for publicly traded companies and the related topics of securities fraud, insider trading, market manipulation, and shareholder voting. We will study core concepts such as the definition of a security and materiality. Finally, we will spend significant time examining the role of the SEC and private shareholder litigation in policing the securities laws. PREREQUISITE/COREQUISITE: Business Fundamentals is a prerequisite; Corporations is a corequisite. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 883 A1 , Jan 19th to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 4 David H. Webber SPRG 2020: LAW JD 883 A1 , Jan 14th to Apr 21st 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 4 David H. Webber LAW 103 Shareholder Activism (S): LAW JD 928 3 credits The recent rise of shareholder activism has become one of the most important topics for investors, corporate managers, and lawyers, transforming the way that public companies are run. Investment funds of all types have turned to activist strategies, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds, labor union funds, religious orders, and charitable foundations. These shareholders are no longer content to passively defer to senior managers and boards of directors while quietly collecting their dividends and hoping for share price appreciation. Some may demand specific business changes, others demand across-the board governance reforms, and still others may pursue environmental or social objectives. This course will explore the various forms of shareholder activism, and corporate responses to them. We will examine the debate over proxy access, say-on-pay initiatives, majority voting for directors, the corporate governance reform movement, corporate political activity, socially responsible investing, and shareholder litigation. In examining these issues we will discuss the costs and benefits of such activism. Students will also develop an appreciation for the institutional players that drive this activism, and for those that oppose it. Students should expect to hear from several guest speakers from all sides of the shareholder activist debate. RECOMMENDED COURSES: Corporations and Business Fundamentals. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with the approval of the instructor. GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. SPRG 2020: LAW JD 928 A1 , Jan 14th to Apr 21st 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue 10:40 am 12:40 pm 3 David H. Webber LAW 417 In the MediaDecember 3, 2020Carrots And Sticks: Why Nasdaq Adopted Its Radical Board Diversity RuleDavid Webber is quoted. read moreOctober 30, 2020Why Millennials Will Win Trumps War on Socially Responsible InvestingA piece by David Webber. read moreAugust 12, 2020Morgan Stanleys Sustainable Accelerator Takes Aim at Systemic RiskDavid Webber quoted. read moreAugust 10, 2020Private Prison Companies Move to Cut Debt as Activists Hit HomeDavid Webber quoted. read moreAugust 20, 2019Values Over Value: A Big Change In Corporate Governance Is ImminentDavid Webber is featured in ValueWalk. read moreJuly 23, 2019Elizabeth Warrens Private Equity Plan Seeks to Strip Industry of RichesDavid Webber is quoted in Bloomberg. read moreJuly 23, 2019Amundis New Fund and Why Everyone Should Care About InequalityDavid Webber and his new book are mentioned in Financial Times. read moreJune 12, 2019Is Labors Future in Labors Capital? A DebateDavid Webber contributed to a debate in Law and Political Economy. read moreJune 11, 2019Labors Last Hope?David Webber's new book is reviewed in the New York Review of Books. read moreJune 10, 2019Book Review: The Rise of the Working-Class ShareholderDavid Webber's book is featured in IPE. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
