Ahmed Ghappour | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Ahmed Ghappour Associate Professor of Law Data Science Faculty Fellow, Boston University Hariri Institute for Computing BS, Rutgers University JD, New York University School of Law Areas of Interest Criminal Law, Cybersecurity Law, Evidence Law, Foreign Relations & National Security Law Contact Office Room 1404F Email ghappour@bu.edu Phone 617-358-7340 SSRN Author Page Biography Ahmed Ghappour, an expert in criminal law and computer security, joined the full-time faculty of Boston University School of Law in 2017. He was previously a Visiting Assistant Professor at U.C. Hastings College of the Law where he taught Criminal Procedure and a seminar on Electronic Surveillance. Ghappours research bridges computer science and the law to address contemporary challenges wrought by new technologies in the administration of criminal justice and national security. His recently published Stanford Law Review article, Searching Places Unknown: Law Enforcement Jurisdiction on the Dark Web, examines the foreign relations and national security implications of government hacking operations that use malware to pursue criminal suspects that use sophisticated cryptographic tools to anonymize their communications on the dark web. The article was competitively selected for presentation at the New Voices in National Security Law session of the 2017 American Association of Law Schools Annual Meeting, and the New Voices in International Law session of the 2017 American Society of International Law Annual Meeting. Ghappours research and teaching interests stem from his experience litigating complex computer crime and national security cases. At U.C. Hastings, he founded the schools Liberty, Security & Technology Clinic, which provided legal services to criminal defendants in espionage and computer crime cases. Prior to UC-Hastings, he taught the National Security Clinic at the University of Texas School of Law, represented Guantanamo detainees in their habeas corpus proceedings at Reprieve UK, and worked as a patent litigator at Orrick Herrington and Sutcliffe LLP. Formerly, Ghappour was a computer engineer focused on automation, diagnostics, distributed systems architecture and high performance computing. Publications Ahmed Ghappour, James Cooper, Hillary Greene, David Lieber & Felix Wu, "Panel: Data Collection and the Regulatory State," in Symposium Privacy, Security & Power: The State of Digital Surveillance, 49 Connecticut Law Review 1733 (2017). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Ahmed Ghappour, "Searching Places Unknown: Law Enforcement Jurisdiction on the Dark Web," 69 Stanford Law Review 1075 (2017). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Ahmed Ghappour, "Tallinn, Hacking, and Customary International Law," 111 AJIL Unbound 224 (2017). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Courses Cybersecurity Law: LAW JD 792 3 credits This course will consider legal and policy challenges arising from rapidly evolving threats in cyberspace. It will define an array of cyber threats, and consider the ways in which they impact a range of governmental and non-governmental actors and entities. It will identify the domestic and international legal frameworks that regulate conduct in cyberspace--including laws related to cybercrime, cyberespionage, and cyberwar--and examine substantive and institutional questions such as: What existing principles limit cyber threats? What are the norms emerging through state practice? How should we fill in the gaps? Who should make these decisions? How should they be enforced? The course will explore these questions within the context of broader policy debates about Internet governance and the role of governmental and non-governmental actors in defending against cyber threats; state restrictions on civil rights and liberties in defending against cyber threats; allocation of decision-making among (and within) the branches for U.S. cybersecurity; and issues of secrecy and accountability. The objective of this course is to deepen our understanding of the existing threats and protections in cyberspace, the regulatory challenges that exist, and the institutions that should address them. No technical knowledge is required. Familiarity with public international law, administrative law and criminal procedure is helpful, but not necessary. International law concepts will be introduced as necessary. GRADING NOTICE: This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. FALL 2020: LAW JD 792 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 4th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Thu,Fri 10:45 am 12:15 pm 3 Ahmed Ghappour NIP 320 FALL 2019: LAW JD 792 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 5th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 6:30 pm 8:00 pm 3 LAW 209 Privacy, Security & Technology (S): LAW JD 849 3 credits This seminar explores how modern technology disrupts many of the customs and principles upon which our laws and institutions for national security have evolved. The advancement of modern technology is changing the nature of how we perceive and defend against security threats across all domains. Attacks can be launched in ways that national borders and other conventional defenses cannot easily stop, and the proliferation of privacy enhancing cryptographic tools provides virtual refuge for threat actors to congregate, coordinate and conspire. At the same time, the state has mobilized the use of new technologies--expanding, and indeed, redefining, surveillance capabilities--to predict, prevent and defend against threats in the modern era. This class will focus on a series of historical and contemporary challenges posed by a range of technologies to the government's administration of security and justice, and the solutions implemented or proposed by the state in response. The objective is to contextualize and deepen our understanding of the substantive and institutional questions that arise from the modern day "going dark" problem, in order to facilitate sound policy and good politics in areas that are devoid of law. Topics for discussion may include, but are not limited to: the use of cryptographic tools to evade government surveillance; government proposals for "backdoor" access to people's devices and data; the use of government hacking as a surveillance tool; and the use of machine learning to predict and prevent threat incidents. No technical knowledge is required. NOTES: This class does not satisfy the upper-class writing requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option. **A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 849 A1 , Jan 14th to Apr 15th 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Thu 4:20 pm 6:20 pm 3 Ahmed Ghappour SPRG 2020: LAW JD 849 A1 , Jan 16th to Apr 16th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Thu 6:30 pm 8:30 pm 3 Ahmed Ghappour LAW 417 In the MediaAugust 25, 2020If TikTok and WeChat Bans Go into Effect, Will It Be a Crime to Use the Apps in the US?Ahmed Ghappour interviewed. read moreJuly 11, 2020The Secret Service Tried to Catch a Hacker With a Malware Booby-TrapAhmed Ghappour's work referenced. read moreOctober 23, 2018Targeted by Mueller, What Did Trump Confidante Roger Stone Actually Do?Ahmed Ghappour quoted in ABC News. read moreOctober 2, 2018Why Cops Can Force You to Unlock Your Phone with Your FaceAhmed Ghappour quoted in Wired. read moreJune 12, 2018WannaCry Heros New Legal Woes Spell Trouble For White Hat HackersAhmed Ghappour quoted in "WannaCry Hero's New Legal Woes Spell Trouble for White Hat Hackers,"Wired. read moreApril 18, 2018Can the Law Stop Ransomware?Andrew Sellars and Ahmed Ghappour quoted in Pressform read moreApril 12, 2018BU Cybersecurity Law Professor Reacts to Zuckerberg TestimonyAhmed Ghappour interviewed on WBZ read moreDecember 21, 2017Whats Under the Gravestone?Ahmed Ghappour quoted in Slate. read moreNovember 14, 2017FBI Tries to Hack the World: Domestic Law Enforcement Agency Ignores BordersAhmed Ghappour quoted in Sputnik News read moreNovember 9, 2017The FBI Blindly Hacked Computers in Russia, China, and IranThe FBI Blindly Hacked Computers in Russia, China, and Iran the Daily Beast read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
