Robert D. Sloane | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Robert D. Sloane Professor of Law R. Gordon Butler Scholar in International Law BA magna cum laude, Columbia College JD, Yale University Diploma, Hague Academy of International Law Areas of Interest Criminal Law, Foreign Relations & National Security Law, International Arbitration, International Criminal Law, International Law, Jurisprudence, Laws of War Contact Office Room 1404G Email rdsloane@bu.edu Phone 617-358-4633 Full CVSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography After receiving his JD in 2000, Professor Robert D. Sloane worked for the International Committee of Lawyers for Tibet (now known as Tibet Justice Center) under the auspices of Yale Law Schools Robert L. Bernstein Fellowship in International Human Rights. He led fact-finding missions to Nepal, India, and Tibet; wrote submissions for the UN Commission on Human Rights and human rights treaty bodies; represented asylum seekers; and published several reports and law journal articles on human rights. Professor Sloane then served two clerkships, first for Judge Robert D. Sack of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and then for Judge Gerard E. Lynch of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (formerly of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York). He also practiced international law at Debevoise & Plimpton in New York, where he focused on international arbitration and litigation and worked on, among other cases, the Avena litigation before the International Court of Justice, challenging the convictions of Mexican nationals on death row based on violations of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Professor Sloane continues to practice international law periodically as a consultant and has worked on arbitrations conducted under the auspices of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, the International Chamber of Commerce and specialized tribunals, as well as assisting with the preparation of expert opinions for foreign sovereigns and multinational corporations. He also practices international human rights law on a pro bono basis, chiefly in his capacity as a member of the Boardof Tibet Justice Center, a non-governmental organization that seeks to promote self-determination and human rights for the Tibetan people through legal advocacy. Before joining Boston University School of Law, Professor Sloane served as a visiting lecturer-in-law and Orville H. Schell, Jr. Fellow at Yale Law School, where he taught international human rights and international arbitration, and as an associate-in-law at Columbia Law School. Professor Sloanes scholarship focuses on international law and related fields including national security and foreign relations law, the law of war, international criminal law, jurisprudence, and international dispute resolution. His 2009 article The Cost of Conflation: Preserving the Dualism of Jus ad Bellum and Jus in Bello in the Contemporary Law of War, published in Volume 34 of the Yale Journal of International Law, received the Lieber Prize, awarded by the American Society of International Laws Francis Lieber Society for outstanding scholarship in the field of the law of armed conflict by an author under the age of 35. His 2007 article Prologue to a Voluntarist War Convention, published in Volume 106 of the Michigan Law Review, received a certificate of merit from the Francis Lieber Society based on the same criteria. In 2013, he was awarded the Francis Dek Prize for On the Use and Abuse of Necessity in the Law of State Responsibility, published in Volume 106 of the American Journal of International Law, awarded by the American Society of International Law for meritorious scholarship in the journal by a younger author. Professor Sloanes current work focuses on foreign relations law, the uses of ideology in international law, the law of war, and international criminal law. In 2007, Professor Sloane received a high-level diploma in public international law from the Hague Academy of International Law. Professor Sloane has been a visiting professor at the University of Michigan Law School (Spring 2010); Harvard Law School (Spring 2011), where he served as the John Harvey Gregory Lecturer in World Organization; the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy of Tufts University (2012); Yale Law School (Spring 2014); and the Xiamen Academy of International Law (2016). Professor Sloane is an elected member of the American Law Institute and serves on the Members Consultative Group for the Restatement (Fourth) of Foreign Relations Law. In 2013, Boston University named him the R. Gordon Butler Scholar in International Law. Publications Non-Military Techniques: Economic Warfare, Propaganda, Diplomacy, and Other Non-Military Instruments of Statecraft, Robert Sloane, ed., BRILL/Nijhoff (forthcoming). Series: American Classics in International Law, W. Michael Reisman, editor-in-chief. Robert Sloane, Brief for of International and Constitutional Law Experts as Amici Curiae Supporting Petition for Certiorari, Al Bahlul v. United States, 840 F.3d 757 (D.C. Cir. 2016) (en banc), at 2017 WL2376429., (2017). [with Foley Hoag LLP]Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane & Michael J. Glennon, Foreign Affairs Federalism: The Myth of National Exclusivity, Oxford University Press (2016). Publisher Robert Sloane & Michael J. Glennon, "The Sad, Quiet Death of Missouri v. Holland: How Bond Hobbled the Treaty Power," 41 Yale Journal of International Law 51 (2016). BU | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Puzzles of Proportion and the Reasonable Military Commander: Reflections on the Law, Ethics, and Geopolitics of Proportionality," 6 Harvard National Security Journal 299 (2015). BU | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Three Problems with the As-If Thesis of Proportionality," Boston University International Law Journal Online (Sep 24, 2014). Publisher Robert Sloane, "Tibetan Diaspora in the Shadow of the Self-Immolation Crisis: Consequences of Colonialism," in Still Waiting for Tomorrow: The Law and Politics of Unresolved Refugee Crises 55, Susan Akram & Tom Syring, eds., Cambridge Scholars Publishing (2014). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, review of James Q. Whitman, The Verdict of Battle: The Law of Victory and the Making of Modern War, Harvard University Press (2012), 107 American Journal of International Law 972 (2013). SSRN | BU | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda," in The Rules, Practice, and Jurisprudence of International Courts and Tribunals 261, Chiara Giorgetti, ed., Martinus Nijhoff Publishers (2012). SSRN | BU | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "On the Use and Abuse of Necessity in the Law of State Responsibility," 106 American Journal of International Law 447 (2012). SSRN | BU Robert Sloane, "Taking Stock Ten Years In: COIN, Casualties, and Costs in the Long War - An Introduction," 30 Boston University International Law Journal 565 (2012). Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Tibet, Cynical Sinicism, and the Tragedy of Self-Immolations," East Asia Forum (May 9, 2012). Publisher Robert Sloane, Mahnoush Arsanjani, Jacob Katz Cogan & Siegfried Wiessner, "Introduction," in Looking to the Future: Essays on International Law in Honor of W. Michael Reisman xv, Mahnoush Arsanjani, Jacob Katz Cogan & Siegfried Wiessner, eds., Martinus Nijhoff (2011). Looking to the Future: Essays on International Law in Honor of W. Michael Reisman, Robert Sloane, Mahnoush Arsanjani, Jacob Katz Cogan & Siegfried Wiessner, eds., Martinus Nijhoff (2011). Publisher Robert Sloane, "More Than What Courts Do: Jurisprudence, Decision, and Dignity--In Brief Encounters and Global Affairs," in Looking to the Future: Essays on International Law in Honor of W. Michael Reisman 261, Mahnoush Arsanjani, Jacob Katz Cogan & Siegfried Wiessner, eds., Martinus Nijhoff (2011). Originally published in 34 Yale Journal of International Law 517 (2009).SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Puzzles of Proportion: Ethics, Rhetoric,and the Political Foundations of Proportionality in Asymmetric Warfare," in Symposium New Battlefields/Old Laws: Shaping a Legal Environment for Counterinsurgency, 105 American Society of International Law Proceedings 370 (2011). Robert Sloane, "Responses to the Ten Questions: 4. IsCurtiss-Wright's Characterization of Executive Power Correct?" 37 William Mitchell Law Review 5072 (2011). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Tibet's Stateless Nationals II: Tibetan Refugees in India, Tibet Justice Center, (2011). Publisher Robert Sloane, "Human Rights for Hedgehogs?: Global Value Pluralism, International Law, and Some Reservations of the Fox," in Symposium Justice for Hedgehogs: A Conference on Ronald Dworkin's Forthcoming Book, 90 Boston University Law Review 975 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, review of Aaron Fichtelberg, Law at the Vanishing Point, Ashgate (2008), 104 American Journal of International Law (2010). BU Robert Sloane, "Breaking the Genuine Link: The Contemporary International Legal Regulation of Nationality," 50 Harvard International Law Journal 1 (2009). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane & Gary Lawson, "The Constitutionality of Decolonization by Associated Statehood: Puerto Rico's Legal Status Reconsidered," 50 Boston College Law Review (2009). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "The Cost of Conflation: Preserving the Dualism of Jus Ad Bellum and Jus in Bello in the Contemporary Law of War," 34 Yale Journal of International Law 47 (2009). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "More Than What Courts Do: Jurisprudence, Decision, and Dignity--In Brief Encounters and Global Affairs," 34 Yale Journal of International Law (2009). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, review of Mark Drumbl, Atrocity, Punishment, and International Law, Cambridge University Press (2007), 102 American Journal of International Law 197 (2008). Westlaw | SSRN | BU Robert Sloane, review of Beth Van Schaack & Ronald C. Slye, International Criminal Law and Its Enforcement, Foundation Press (2007), 6 Journal of International Criminal Justice 399 (2008). [Book Note]Westlaw Robert Sloane, "The Scope of Executive Power in the Twenty-First Century: An Introduction," 88 Boston University Law Review 341 (2008). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Sentencing," in The Oxford Companion to International Criminal Justice 509, Antonio Cassese, ed., Oxford University Press (2008). BU Robert Sloane, "The Expressive Capacity of International Punishment: The Limits of the National Law Analogy and the Potential of International Criminal Law," 43 Stanford Journal of International Law 39 (2007). Reprinted as abridged in Crime and Punishment: Emerging Trends, K. Prassana Rani, ed., Amicus Books, ICFAI University Press (2008). Reprinted in full inThe Globalization of Criminal Justice 315, Michael Bohlander, ed.,Ashgate Publishing Limited(2010).Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | BU | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "The Policies of State Succession: Harmonizing Self-Determination and Global Order in the Twenty-First Century," review of Tai-Heng Cheng, State Succession and Commercial Obligations, Transnational Publishers Inc. (2006), 30 Fordham International Law Journal 1288 (2007). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Prologue to a Voluntarist War Convention," 106 Michigan Law Review 443 (2007). Reprinted as abridged in War Crimes and Law ___, Anila V. Menon, ed., Amicus Books, ICFAI University Press (2008).Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Sentencing for the 'Crime of Crimes': The Evolving 'Common Law' of Sentencing of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda," 5 Journal of International Criminal Justice 713 (2007). Westlaw | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane & W. Michael Reisman, "Future Status Options and Processes for Preserving the Right to Self-Determination of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico," in S. Hrg. 109-796, Puerto Rico 99, Committee on Energy and Natural Resources United States Senate (2006). [A Study Prepared for the Status Commission of the Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico] Robert Sloane, "AEDPA's 'Adjudication on the Merits' Requirement: Collateral Review, Federalism, and Comity," 78 St. John's Law Review 615 (2004). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Robert Sloane & W. Michael Reisman, "Indirect Expropriation and its Valuation in the BIT Generation," 74 British Yearbook of International Law 115 (2004). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "Measures Necessary to Ensure: The ICJ's Provisional Measures Order in Avena and Other Mexican Nationals," 17 Leiden Journal of International Law 673 (2004). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, "An Offer of Firm Resettlement," 36 George Washington International Law Review 47 (2004). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Robert Sloane, "The Changing Face of Recognition in International Law: A Case Study of Tibet," 16 Emory International Law Review 107 (2002). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, Helen Brundige, Shaheena Anwari Ahmad & Diane Curran, Tibet's Stateless Nationals: Tibetan Refugees in Nepal, Tibet Justice Center, (2002). Publisher Robert Sloane & Alison D. Morantz, Designing and Implementing an Effective Legal Strategy for the Enforcement of a Vaccine Purchase-Commitment Contract, World Health Organization, (2001). Robert Sloane et al., A Generation in Peril: The Lives of Tibetan Children under Chinese Rule, International Committee of Lawyers for Tibet, (2001). Publisher Robert Sloane et al., Jampa: the Story of Racism in Tibet, International Campaign for TIbet, (2001). Publisher Robert Sloane, "Outrelativizing Relativism: A Liberal Defense of the Universality of International Human Rights," 34 Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law 527 (2001). Excerpted in International Law Today: A Handbook, A. D'Amato & J. Abbassi eds., West Group (2006).Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, W. Michael Reisman & Monica Hakimi, "Procedures for Resolving the Kosovo Problem," United Nations Association (2001). [Address to the United Nations Association] Robert Sloane & W. Michael Reisman, "The Incident at Cavalese and Strategic Compensation," 94 American Journal of International Law 505 (2000). Westlaw | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Robert Sloane, Torture in Tibet: A Report to the U.N. Committee Against Torture, United Nations Committee Against Torture, (2000). Robert Sloane, Rosa Ehrenreich, Clovene Hanchard & Glenn McGrory, 'Nobody's Children': Jamaican Children in Police Lock-ups and Government Institutions, Human Rights Watch, (1999). Publisher Robert Sloane, S. Benesch, Glenn McGrory & C. Rodriguez, "International Customary Law and Antipersonnel Landmines: Emergence of a New Customary Norm," in Landmine Monitor Report 1999: Toward a Mine-Free World, , International Campaign to Ban Landmines (1999). Courses International Criminal Law (S): LAW JD 996 3 credits This seminar will focus chiefly on the crimes for which individuals incur criminal liability directly under contemporary international law. We will cover, in particular, (i) what crimes qualify as international in this sense, general principles of international criminal jurisdiction and immunities, and the historical evolution of the field from its genesis after World War I to Nuremberg to the permanent International Criminal Court established in 2002; (ii) treaty provisions, statutes, and tribunal jurisprudence defining the nature and scope of liability for core international crimes, viz., genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes; (iii) modern debates over other, and at times more controversial, international crimes, such as torture and CIDT, as well as the crime of aggression; (iv) the minimal requirements and forms of individual criminal responsibility under international law; and (v) selected special topics, including the principle of legality, head of state immunity, and crimes of sexual violence. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students will be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with this seminar after consultation with the instructor. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 996 A1 , Jan 21st to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Thu,Fri 10:45 am 12:10 pm 3 Ioannis Kalpouzos SPRG 2020: LAW JD 996 A1 , Jan 13th to Apr 22nd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed 10:40 am 12:40 pm 3 Cerone LAW 203 International Law: LAW JD 927 4 credits This course will offer a basic survey of contemporary international law. It will teach students the minimum that every lawyer should know about the major issues of public international law and policy that influence current events and modern legal practice. It will also provide a foundation for those interested in further study of particular topics covered. We will consider both the historical "law of nations" and post-World War II developments, which have shifted the fulcrum of the system from an exclusive focus on the rights and duties of states inter se to a broader focus on all the diverse participants in the contemporary international legal process: not only states but intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations, insurgents, multinational business enterprises, terrorist and criminal associations, and individuals. Specific topics will include: (i) the history, nature, sources and efficacy of international law; (ii) the establishment, transformation and termination of states and other actors, including international institutions and, in particular, the United Nations; (iii) the domestic incorporation of international law, with a focus on key concepts of U.S. foreign relations law; (iv) the allocation among states of jurisdiction to prescribe and apply law, as well as jurisdictional immunities; (v) human rights, the laws of war, and international criminal law; (vi) the allocation of control over and regulation of the resources of the planet, including the law of the sea, territory, the environment, and the global economy; and (vii) the use of force. The role of power in the international legal system will be candidly acknowledged--and the problems and opportunities it presents explored. Current international events will be woven into the curriculum as appropriate. Examination. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. FALL 2020: LAW JD 927 A1 , Sep 2nd to Dec 4th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed,Fri 10:40 am 12:40 pm 4 Tally Kritzman-Amir LAW 414 FALL 2019: LAW JD 927 A1 , Sep 4th to Dec 5th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed,Thu 8:30 am 10:30 am 4 Ingber LAW 101 National Security Law & Foreign Relations Law: LAW JD 890 3 credits This course will introduce the framework of constitutional, statutory, and international law that authorizes and constrains the conduct of U.S. foreign affairs and national security policy. We will study the allocation of foreign affairs and national security authority among the branches of government, as well as selected topics of contemporary relevance. These will vary with contemporary events but will draw from the following: international and domestic law governing recourse to force and the conduct of hostilities; the detention, interrogation, and prosecution of alleged unprivileged belligerents and other suspects in national security matters before courts and military commissions; torture and extraordinary rendition; covert action; the protection of civil liberties in wartime; surveillance; and contemporary issues at the intersection of international economic law, trade, and national security. GRADING NOTICE: This class does not offer the CR/NC/H option. SPRG 2020: LAW JD 890 A1 , Jan 15th to Apr 16th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed,Thu 9:00 am 10:25 am 3 Ingber LAW 413 In the MediaSeptember 25, 2018California Asserts Global Power in Defiance of Trump Administration PoliciesRobert Sloane quoted in ABA Journal. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
