David Rossman | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: David Rossman Director, Criminal Law Clinical Programs Professor of Law BA, Dartmouth College JD, Harvard University Areas of Interest Criminal Law & Procedure, Trial Advocacy Contact Office Room 1402D Email drossman@bu.edu Phone 617-353-5011 Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Since 1978,David Rossmanhas served as director of BU Laws Criminal Law Clinical Programs. He teaches courses in criminal procedure, criminal trial practice, criminal trial advocacy and issues in criminal justice. Working with young lawyers on actual litigation is immensely satisfying, he says. Im always energized by the new ways in which they attack problems that seem old hat to me. Professor Rossman has maintained an active criminal defense practice for nearly three decades. He has represented defendants at all state and federal court levels, including the U.S. Supreme Court. He also has served as an assistant district attorney in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, where he was responsible for grand jury investigations and prosecutions of white-collar crimes. As a Massachusetts special assistant attorney general, he represented bar counsel in federal litigation regarding the rules of ethics that regulate federal prosecutors. Criminal law is exciting to me because the way it is formulated and implemented by police and the courts helps define the very society in which we live, he says. The issues involved are at the forefront of the publics attention and literally have to do with life and death. Additionally, Professor Rossman has served as a law clerk on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and a teaching fellow at Boston College Law School. He has consulted with the Massachusetts Department of Personnel Administration and the U.N.s Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Program and has written a treatise on guilty pleas, as well as monographs and articles on criminal procedure. In 2000, Professor Rossman spoke on The Fight Against International Crime and the Threat to Individual Liberties at the Globalization and Crime conference in Mexico City. He was involved in a State Department grant that provided assistance to a law school clinic in Siberia. Publications David Rossman, "Resurrecting Miranda's Right to Counsel," 97 Boston University Law Review 1129 (2017). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Wendy Kaplan & David Rossman, "Called 'Out' at Home: The One Strike Eviction Policy and Juvenile Court," in Symposium Our Youth at a Crossroad: The Collateral Consequences of Juvenile Adjudication, 3 Duke Forum for Law and Social Change 109 (2011). Publisher David Rossman, "Conditional Rules in Criminal Procedure: Alice in Wonderland Meets the Constitution," 26 Georgia State University Law Review 417 (2010). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons David Rossman, "The Globalization of Crime and the Threat to Individual Liberty," in Derecho Penal y Globalizacion __, Rafael Marquez Pinero, ed., Editorial Porrua (2001). David Rossman, Supplements XXII and XXIII to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, 1982, Matthew Bender (1995). David Rossman, "Challenging Guilty Pleas," in Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas Chapter 6, Matthew Bender (1995). David Rossman, "The Factual Basis Requirement," in Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas Chapter 4, Matthew Bender (1995). David Rossman, "The Effect of a Guilty Plea," in Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas Chapter 5, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1994). David Rossman, Supplements XX and XXI to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1994). David Rossman, "Voluntariness," in Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas Chapter 2, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1994). David Rossman, "The 'Knowing and Intelligent' Requirement," in Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas , Matthew Bender, 1982 (1993). David Rossman, "Plea Bargaining and the Federal Sentencing Guidelines," in Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas Chapter 11, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1993). David Rossman, Supplements XVIII and XIX to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1993). David Rossman, Supplements XVII and XVIII to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1992). David Rossman, Supplements XV and XVI to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1991). David Rossman, "'Were There No Appeal': The History of Review in American Criminal Courts," 81 Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 501 (1990-91). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline David Rossman, "Double Jeopardy," in Massachusetts Criminal Defense Chapter 21, Eric D. Blumenson, ed., Butterworth Legal Publishers (1990). David Rossman, Supplement XIII and XIV to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1990). David Rossman, Supplement XI and XII to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1989). David Rossman, Supplement IX and X to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1988). David Rossman, Supplement VII and VIII to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1987). David Rossman, Supplement IV to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1986). David Rossman, Supplement V and VI to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1986). David Rossman, Supplement III to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1985). David Rossman, Supplement II to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1984). David Rossman, Supplement I to 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender, 1982 (1983). David Rossman, 2 Criminal Law Advocacy: Guilty Pleas, Matthew Bender (1982). Publisher David Rossman, The Impact of the Mandatory Gun Law in Massachusetts, report to the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, (1979). David Rossman, "Massachusetts' Mandatory Minimum Sentence Gun Law: Enforcement, Prosecution and Defense Impact," 16 Criminal Law Bulletin 150 (1979). David Rossman, "Testing the Sufficiency of the Prosecution's Evidence by a Motion for a Judgement of Acquittal," in Criminal Defense Techniques Chapter 39, Matthew Bender, 1969 (1978). David Rossman, "Criminal Law and Procedure," 23 Annual Survey of Massachusetts Law __ (1975-76). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline David Rossman, Sheldon Krantz et al., The Right to Counsel in Criminal Cases: The Mandate of Argersinger v. Hamlin, Boston University Center for Criminal Justice (1976). David Rossman, "Criminal Law and Procedure," 22 Annual Survey of Massachusetts Law __ (1974-75). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline David Rossman, Intake Screening, A Proposal for Massachusetts District Attorneys, report for Boston University Center for Criminal Justice, (1975). David Rossman, "Criminal Law and Procedure," 21 Annual Survey of Massachusetts Law 35 (1974). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline David Rossman, "The Scope of the Sixth Amendment: Who is a Criminal Defendant?" 12 American Criminal Law Review 633 (1974-75). In the MediaOctober 8, 2020Barrett Puts Affirmative Action In Play As Harvard Case LoomsDavid Rossman is quoted. read moreOctober 8, 2020Defense Lawyers Question Plymouth County District Attorneys Record on Exposing Cops with Credibility IssuesDavid Rossman is quoted. read moreAugust 21, 2020Court Was Misguided in Overturning Tsarnaevs Death PenaltyA piece by David Rossman. read moreSeptember 13, 2019Actress Felicity Huffmans SentencingDavid Rossman interviewed by NBC Boston. read moreDecember 4, 2018Panel is Charged with Reviewing States Secret CourtsDavid Rossman quoted in the Boston Globe read moreSeptember 27, 2018The Problem with Making a Sex-Crimes Prosecutor the Face of Senate Judiciary RepublicansDavid Rossman quoted in SFGate read moreSeptember 18, 2018No Prints, No Plea Legal Snafu Delays Justice for Carney FamilyDavid Rossman quoted in Wicked Local Middleborough read moreJuly 24, 2018The noble idea: Inside the Job of District AttorneyDavid Rossman quoted in "The 'noble idea': Inside the job of district attorney,"The Berkshire Eagle. read moreAugust 4, 2017US woman who urged boyfriend to commit suicide to serve 15 months in jailDavid Rossman quoted in "US woman who urged boyfriend to commit suicide to serve 15 months in jail," The Straits Times. read moreJuly 24, 2017Activists cheer pot bill provision allowing previously convicted to work in industryDavid Rossman quoted in "Activists cheer pot bill provision allowing previously convicted to work in industry," Boston Globe. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
