Danielle Citron | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Danielle K. Citron Austin B. Fletcher Professor of Law JD, cum laude, Fordham University School of Law BA, cum laude, Duke University Areas of Interest Administrative Law, Automation, Civil Liberties, Civil Rights, Feminist & Critical Race Scholarship, Free Expression, Privacy, Privacy Governance Contact Office 1402L Email dkcitron@bu.edu Phone 617-353-5542 Personal WebsiteSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography Danielle Citron is the Austin B. Fletcher Professor of Law at the Boston University School of Law, where she teaches and writes about information privacy, free expression, and civil rights. Professor Citron has garnered awards nationally and internationally. She was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2019 based on her work on cyber stalking and sexual privacy. In 2015, the United Kingdoms Prospect magazine named Professor Citron one of the Top 50 World Thinkers. The Maryland Daily Record named her one of the Top 50 Most Influential Marylanders of 2015. Professor Citrons book Hate Crimes in Cyberspace (Harvard University Press, 2014) was named one of the 20 Best Moments for Women in 2014 by Cosmopolitan magazine. She has published 40 law review articles, appearing in the Yale Law Journal, California Law Review (twice), Michigan Law Review (three times), Harvard Law Review Forum, Boston University Law Review (three times), Minnesota Law Review, Notre Dame Law Review (twice), George Washington Law Review, Texas Law Review, Washington University Law Review (three times), Southern California Law Review, Fordham Law Review (twice), Washington Law Review (twice), William & Mary Law Review, University of Chicago Legal Forum, among other major journals. Her opinion pieces have appeared in major media outlets, including the New York Times, the Atlantic, Slate, Time, CNN, the Guardian, New Scientist, and New York Daily News. Professor Citron is the vice president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, a nonprofit devoted to the protection of civil rights and liberties. She serves on the board of directors of the Electronic Privacy Information Center and the Future of Privacy and on the advisory boards of the Anti-Defamation Leagues Center for Technology and Society and Teach Privacy. In connection with her advocacy work, she advises tech companies on online safety and civil liberties. She serves on Twitters Trust and Safety Council and Facebooks Nonconsensual Intimate Imagery Task Force. Citron is an affiliate scholar at the Stanford Center on Internet and Society, Yale Information Society Project, and NYUs Policing Project. She is a member of Axons advisory board on AI Ethics and the advisory board for theCenter on Investigative Reporting. As a member of the American Law Institute, she serves as an adviser to the Restatement Third,Information Privacy Principles Project and Restatement (Third) Torts: Defamation and Privacy. She is a member of the board of directors for the HarvardMIT AI Fund. Professor Citron has advised federal and state legislators, law enforcement, and international lawmakers on privacy issues. In 2019, she testified before the House Intelligence Committee on the national security challenges of deep fakes and other forms of disinformation as well as before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on the responsibility of online platforms. In April 2015, she testified at a congressional briefing sponsored by Congresswoman Katharine Clark on the First Amendment implications of a federal cyber stalking legal agenda. She has advised the offices of Congresswoman Katharine Clark, Congresswoman Jackie Speier, Senator Diane Feinstein, Senator Elizabeth Warren, and Senator Kamala Harris on potential federal legislation. Professor Citron helped Maryland State Senator Jon Cardin draft a bill criminalizing the nonconsensual publication of nude images, which was passed into law in 2014. From 2014 to December 2016, Professor Citron served as an advisor to then-California Attorney General Kamala Harris. She served as a member of AG Harriss Task Force to Combat Cyber Exploitation and Violence Against Women. In October 2015, Professor Citron, with AG Harris, spoke at a press conference to discuss her offices new online resource for law enforcement and individuals whose nude images were disclosed without consent. In 2011, Professor Citron testified about misogynistic cyber hate speech before the Inter-Parliamentary Committee on Anti-Semitism at the House of Commons. Professor Citron has given more than 400 talks, including at federal agencies, meetings of the National Association of Attorneys General, the National Holocaust Museum, the Anti-Defamation League, major universities (such as Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Columbia, University of Chicago, University of Michigan, and MIT), and think tanks. Professor Citron has been quoted in hundreds of news stories in varied publications, such as the New York Times, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, San Francisco Chronicle, USA Today, HBOs Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, Time, Newsweek, the New Yorker, New York Magazine, Cosmopolitan, Barrons, Financial Times, the Guardian, Vice News, and BBC. She is a frequent guest on National Public Radio shows. Before joining BU Law, she taught at the University of Maryland School of Law where she received the 2018 UMD Champion of Excellence award for teaching and scholarship. She has been a visiting professor at Fordham Law School and George Washington Law School. In 2016, she was a Deans Distinguished Visitor at Washington University School of Law and an interdisciplinary studies fellow at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Professor Citron will make a short visit to the University of Chicago School of Law in 2021 and at Harvard Law School in the fall of 2022. Publications Danielle Citron & Ryan Calo, "The Automated Administrative State: A Crisis of Legitimacy," Emory Law Journal (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron, "Cyber Mobs, Disinformation, and Death Videos: The Internet As It Is (And As It Should Be)," review of Nick Drnaso, Sabrina, Drawn & Quarterly (2018), 118 Michigan Law Review (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron & Mary Anne Franks, "The Internet As a Speech Conversion Machine and Other Myths Confounding Section 230 Reform Efforts," University of Chicago Legal Forum (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron, "A New Compact for Sexual Privacy," William & Mary Law Review (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron & Robert Chesney, "21st Century-Style Truth Decay: Deep Fakes and the Challenge for Privacy, Free Expression, and National Security," in Symposium Truth Decay: Deep Fakes and the Implications for Privacy, National Security, and Democracy, 78 Maryland Law Review 882 (2019). Danielle Citron & Robert Chesney, "Deep Fakes: A Looming Crisis for Privacy, Democracy, and National Security," 107 California Law Review 1753 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron & Mary Anne Franks, "Evaluating New Yorks Revenge Porn Law: A Missed Opportunity to Protect Sexual Privacy," Harvard Law Review Blog (March 19, 2019). Publisher Danielle Citron, "The Roots of Sexual Privacy: Warren and Brandeis & the Privacy of Intimate Life," in Symposium Owning Personality: The Expanding Right of Publicity, 42 Columbia Journal of Law & the Arts 383 (2019). SSRN Danielle Citron, "Sexual Privacy," 128 Yale Law Journal 1870 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron & Jonathon Penney, "When Law Frees Us to Speak," in Symposium Gender Equality and the First Amendment, 87 Fordham Law Review 2317 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Why Combating Online Abuse Is Good For Free Speech," in Free Speech in the Digital Age , Susan Brison & Katharine Gelber, eds., Oxford University Press (2019). Danielle Citron, "Why Sexual Privacy Matters for Trust," 96 Washington University School of Law Review 1189 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron, "Extremist Speech, Compelled Conformity, and Censorship Creep," 93 Notre Dame Law Review 1035 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Neil Richards, "Four Principles for Digital Speech (You Wont Believe #3!)," 95 Washington University School of Law Review 1353 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Quinta Jurecic, "Platform Justice: Content Moderation at an Inflection Point," No. 1811 Aegis Series (2018). Publisher Danielle Citron, "A Poor Mothers Right to Privacy: A Review," review of Khiara Bridges, The Poverty of Privacy Rights, Stanford University Press (2017), 98 Boston University Law Review 1139 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Benjamin Wittes, "The Problem Isn't Just Backpage: Revising Section 230 Immunity," 2 Georgetown Law Technology Review 453 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron & Daniel Solove, "Risk and Anxiety: A Theory of Data Breach Harms," 96 Texas Law Review 737 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Benjamin Wittes, "The Internet Will Not Break: Denying Bad Samaritans Section 230 Immunity," in Symposium Terrorist Incitement on the Internet, 86 Fordham Law Review 401 (2017). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Liz Clark Rinehart, "The Surveillance Implications of Combatting Cyber Harassment," in Cambridge Handbook of Surveillance Law , David Gray & Stephen Henderson, eds., Cambridge University Press (2017). Danielle Citron, "The Privacy Policymaking of State Attorneys General," 92 Notre Dame Law Review 747 (2016). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Addressing Cyber Harassment: An Overview of Hate Crimes in Cyberspace," 6 Case Western Reserve Journal of Law, Technology & the Internet 1 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Danielle Citron, "Protecting Sexual Privacy in the Information Age," in Privacy in the Modern Age: The Search for Solutions , Marc Rotenberg, Jeramie Scott & Julia Horwitz, eds., The New Press (2015). Danielle Citron, "Spying Inc.," in Symposium Cybersurveillance in the Post-Snowden Age, 72 Washington & Lee Law Review 1243 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | HeinOnline Danielle Citron & Mary Anne Franks, "Criminalizing Revenge Porn," 49 Wake Forest Law Review 345 (2014). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | HeinOnline Danielle Citron, Hate Crimes in Cyberspace, Harvard University Press (2014). SSRN Danielle Citron & Frank Pasquale, "Promoting Innovation While Preventing Discrimination: Policy Goals for the Scored Society," 89 Washington Law Review 1413 (2014). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Frank Pasquale, "The Scored Society: Due Process for Automated Predictions," 89 Washington Law Review 1 (2014). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & David Gray, "Addressing the Harm of Total Surveillance: A Reply to Professor Neil Richards," 126 Harvard Law Review Forum 262 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, David Gray & Liz Clark Rinehart, "Fighting Cybercrime AfterUnited States v. Jones," 103 Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology 745 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & David Gray, "The Right to Quantitative Privacy," 98 Minnesota Law Review 62 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & David Gray, "A Shattered Looking Glass: The Pitfalls and Potential of the Mosaic Theory of Fourth Amendment Privacy," 14 North Carolina Journal of Law & Technology 381 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Helen Norton, "Intermediaries and Hate Speech: Fostering Digital Citizenship for the Information Age," 91 Boston University Law Review 1435 (2011). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Frank Pasquale, "Network Accountability for the Domestic Intelligence Apparatus," 62 Hastings Law Journal 1441 (2011). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Civil Rights in Our Information Age," in The Offensive Internet: Speech, Privacy, and Reputation , Martha Nussbaum & Saul Levmore, eds., Harvard University Press (2010). Danielle Citron, "Fulfilling Government 2.0s Promise with Robust Privacy Protection," 78 George Washington Law Review 822 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Helen Norton, "Government Speech 2.0," 87 Denver Law Review 899 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Mainstreaming Privacy Torts," in Symposium Prosser's Privacy at 50: A Symposium on Privacy in the 21st Century, 98 California Law Review 1805 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron & Leslie Meltzer Henry, "Visionary Pragmatism and the Value of Privacy in the Information Age," review of Daniel Solove, Understanding Privacy, Harvard University Press (2008), 108 Michigan Law Review 1107 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Cyber Civil Rights," 89 Boston University Law Review 61 (2009). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Laws Expressive Value in Combating Cyber Gender Harassment," 108 Michigan Law Review 373 (2009). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "The Privacy Implications of Deep Packet Inspection," in Deep Packet Inspection: A Collection of Essays by Industry Experts , Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada (2009). Publisher Danielle Citron, "Open Code Governance," in Symposium Law in a Networked World, 2008 University of Chicago Legal Forum 355 (2008). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Technological Due Process," 85 Washington University School of Law Review 1249 (2008). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Reservoirs of Danger: The Evolution of Public and Private Law at the Dawn of the Information Age," 80 Southern California Law Review 241 (2007). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Minimum Contacts in a Borderless World: Voice over Internet Protocol and the Coming Implosion of Personal Jurisdiction Theory," 39 U.C. Davis Law Review 1481 (2006). SSRN | Scholarly Commons | Publisher Danielle Citron, "Planned Parenthood v. Casey: From U.S. Rights Talk To Western European Responsibility Talk 16 Fordham International Law Journal 761 (1992). Courses Free Speech and the Internet (S): LAW JD 949 3 credits It has never been easier for the powerful to privilege certain speakers or specific information. Content platforms like Facebook, Snapchat, and Twitter have the power to filter, block, and de-prioritize "fake news," deep-fake videos, and hate speech. How should companies address conflicting interests when free expression is on the line? Content platforms are global, and thus the challenges to free expression and other interests are global. Online intermediaries amass massive amounts of personal data about each and everyone one of us. That data is often used to manipulate us in ways that impact our thoughts, beliefs, and opportunities. Cambridge Analytica's use of our personal data is the tip of the iceberg. In the past, debates about our civil rights and civil liberties focused on organizational policies and individual decisions. But a new phenomenon leverages technology and personal data to privilege certain speakers and not others. This seminar will explore the technological systematization of the powerful granting privilege to itself with a focus on free expression. The seminar will cover basic First Amendment doctrine and theory and then extend the conversations to unique challenges for free expression and thought in the digital age. LIMITED WRITING REQUIREMENT OPTION: A limited number of students may be permitted to satisfy the upper-class writing requirement with this seminar. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar (designated by an (S) in the title), or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, may be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who are on a wait list for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. Information Privacy Law: LAW JD 956 3 credits The collection, use, storage, and sharing of personal data has become increasingly important throughout society, from commerce to government and from health care to finance. For good reason, we call this the Information Age. Recall the countless high-profile privacy and data security controversies you have heard about in the last year: location tracking; inaccurate credit reports causing lost jobs; data breaches, hacking and identity theft; and government surveillance. Law has responded with a dizzying array of new rules -- and a rapidly growing area of professional specialization for attorneys. This course serves as an introduction to the emerging law of data privacy. By the end, you will be well grounded in many challenges facing any enterprise, public or private, that collects, processes, uses, and stores personal information. In addition to knowledge of constitutional, statutory, and common law rules as well as federal and state enforcement activity, we will learn about the policy questions that arise in this dynamic area, the legally relevant questions to ask when assessing information practices, and some of the many nonlegal models of information governance. You will gain a basic understanding of data privacy regulation in other countries, particularly the European Union. All students will benefit from more sophisticated knowledge about an issue that appears in the news every single day. But there are significant professional payoffs too. Major law firms have organized entire practice areas devoted to privacy and data protection law. In the last seven years the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP), a key trade association in this space, more than tripled in size to 12,000 members. These trends mean that law school graduates will have increasing job opportunities in data privacy and security law. Meanwhile, in many other practice areas -- such as securities, labor and employment, health, advertising, and the list goes on -- familiarity with privacy and security law has become a major asset. Plus, the issues are fascinating and fun. If nothing else, you can have great conversations at parties. FALL 2020: LAW JD 956 A1 , Sep 1st to Dec 3rd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 4:30 pm 6:00 pm 3 Woodrow Hartzog LAW 212 In the MediaDecember 10, 2020Google to Examine the Departure of a Leading AI Ethics ResearcherDanielle Citron is mentioned. read moreDecember 7, 2020Google Widely Criticized After Parting Ways with a Leading Voice in AI EthicsDanielle Citron is quoted. read moreDecember 4, 2020Something Trump and Biden Agree OnDanielle Citron is quoted. read moreDecember 4, 2020How Joe Biden Could Help Internet Companies Moderate Harmful ContentDanielle Citron is quoted. read moreDecember 3, 2020Facebook to Start Policing Anti-Black Hate Speech More Aggressively Than Anti-White Comments, Documents ShowDanielle Citron is quoted. read moreDecember 3, 2020Parlers Got a Porn Problem: Adult Businesses Target Pro-Trump Social NetworkDanielle Citron is quoted. read moreDecember 3, 2020Facebook is Finally Overhauling How It Handles Hate SpeechDanielle Citron is quoted. read moreNovember 17, 2020What Happened to the Deepfake Threat to the Election?Danielle Citron is quoted. read moreOctober 31, 2020Danielle Citron: What Happens In A World Where Fake Becomes Real?Danielle Citron is interviewed. read moreOctober 30, 2020TikTok Stars Are Being Turned Into Deepfake Porn Without Their ConsentDanielle Citron is quoted. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
