Susan M. Akram | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Susan M. Akram Clinical Professor of Law BA with honors, University of Michigan Ann Arbor JD, Georgetown University Diplome in International Human Rights, Institut International des Droits de lHomme, Strasbourg (France) Masters of Studies, International Human Rights Law, University of Oxford Areas of Interest Immigration Law & Policy, International & Comparative Law Contact Office Room 1301 Email smakram@bu.edu Phone 617-358-3060 Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Professor Susan Akram directs BU Laws International Human Rights Clinic, in which she supervises students engaged in international advocacy in domestic, international, regional, and UN fora. Her research and publications focus on immigration, asylum, refugee, forced migration, and human and civil rights issues, with an interest in the Middle East, the Arab, and Muslim world. Akrams distinguished research was recognized with a Fulbright Senior Scholar Teaching and Research Award for the 19992000 academic year. She has lectured on Palestinian refugees to general audiences around the world as well as to committees of the United Nations (including the High Commission for Refugees and the Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees), the European Union, and representatives of European and Canadian government ministries and parliaments. Since September 11, 2001, she has presented widely on the USA Patriot Act and immigration-related laws and policies as well as on her work challenging standard interpretations of womens asylum claims from the Arab/Muslim world. With her clinic students as well as in collaboration with other legal organizations, Akram has worked on resettlement and refugee claims of Guantanamo detainees, and has been co-counsel on a number of high profile cases, including the 20+-year litigation of a case of first impression on the interpretation of one of the exclusion bars to asylum, In Re A-H-. She has taught at the American University in Cairo, Egypt and at Al-Quds and Birzeit Universities in Palestine. She regularly teaches in the summer institute on forced migration at the Refugee Studies Centre at Oxford University, and in various venues in the Middle East on refugee law. Publications Susan Akram, "The Past as Present, Unlearned Lessons, and the (Non-)Utility of International Law," 44 North Carolina Journal of International Law 389 (2019). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Susan Akram, "Assessing the Impact of the Global Compacts on Refugees and Migration in the Middle East," 30 International Journal of Refugee Law 691 (2018). Publisher Susan Akram, "The Search for Protection for Stateless Refugees in the Middle East: Palestinians and Kurds in Lebanon and Jordan," 30 International Journal of Refugee Law 407 (2018). Publisher Closing Protection Gaps: Handbook on Protection of Palestinian Refugees in States Signatories to the 1951 Convention, 2d edition, Susan Akram & Nidal Al-Azza, eds., Badil Resource Center for Palestinian Residency & Refugee Rights (2015). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "Operation Protective Edge and Why Getting the Law Right Matters," in Symposium Abandoned Yet Central: Gaza and the Resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, The Institute for Palestine Studies (Spr 2015). Publisher Susan Akram et al., " Protecting Syrian Refugees: Laws, Policies, and Global Responsibility Sharing," 7 Middle East Law and Governance 287 (2015). Susan Akram, "Self-Determination, Statehood, and the Refugee Question under International Law in Namibia, Palestine, Western Sahara, and Tibet," in Still Waiting for Tomorrow: The Law and Politics of Unresolved Refugee Crises 75, Susan Akram & Tom Syring, eds., Cambridge Scholars Publishing (2014). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Still Waiting for Tomorrow: The Law and Politics of Unresolved Refugee Crises, Susan Akram & Tom Syring, eds., Cambridge Scholars Publishing (2014). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "UNRWA and Palestinian Refugees," in The Oxford Handbook of Refugee and Forced Migration Studies 227, Elena Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Gil Loescher, Katy Long & Nando Sigona, eds., Oxford University Press (2014). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "The Legal Trajectory of the Palestinian Refugee Issue: From Exclusion to Ambiguity," in Palestine and the Palestinians in the Twenty First Century 121, Rochelle Davis & Mimi Kirk, eds., Indiana University Press (2013). Susan Akram, "Millennium Development Goals and the Protection of Displaced and Refugee Women and Girls," in Symposium Migration and Human Rights, 2013 Laws 283 (2013). SSRN | Publisher | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "The Rights of Palestinian Refugees and Territorial Solutions in Historic Palestine," in The Failure of the Two-State Solution: Prospects of One State in the Israel-Palestine Conflict 171, Hani Faris, ed., I.B. Tauris Publishers (2013). Susan Akram & Michael Lynk, "Arab-Israeli Conflict," in Max Planck Encyclopedia of Public International Law, Rudiger Wolfrum, ed., Oxford University Press, 499 (2012). Publisher | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "Do Constitutions Make a Difference in the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights? Comparing the United States and Israel," in The Dynamics of Constitutionalism in the Age of Globalisation 89, Morly Frishman & Sam Muller, eds., Hague Academic Press (2010). SSRN International Law and the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: A Rights-Based Approach to Middle East Peace, Susan Akram, Michael Lynk, Iain Scobbie & Michael Dumper, eds., Routledge Publishers (2010). Publisher Susan Akram, "Refugees and the Right of Return," in Encyclopedia of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, Cheryl Rubenberg, ed., Lynne Rienner Publishers, 1233 (2010). Susan Akram, "Myths and Realities of the Palestinian Refugee Problem: Reframing the Right of Return," in Symposium Commemorating the Naksa, Evoking the Nakba, 8 MIT Electronic Journal of Middle East Studies 183 (2008). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "The Arab Charter on Human Rights 2004," 24 Boston University International Law Journal 147 (2007). [English] [revised by Susan M. Akram; translated by Dr. Mohammed Amin Al-Midani & Mathilde Cabinettes]Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, "Are They Human Children or Just Border Rats?" 15 Boston University Public Interest Law Journal 187 (2006). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram, review of John Quigley, The Case for Palestine: An International Law Perspective, Duke University Press (2005), 26 Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East 154 (2006). Susan Akram & Michael Lynk, "The Wall and the Law: A Tale of Two Judgements," 24 Netherlands Quarterly of Human Rights 61 (2006). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram & Maritza Karmely, "Immigration and Constitutional Consequences of Post-9/11 Policies Involving Arabs and Muslims in the United States: Is Alienage a Distinction without a Difference?" 38 U.C. Davis Law Review 609 (2005). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram & Kevin R. Johnson, "Race and Civil Rights Pre-September 11, 2001: The Targeting of Arabs and Muslims," in Civil Rights in Peril: The Targeting of Arabs and Muslims 9, Elaine C. Hagopian, ed., Pluto Press (2004). Susan Akram & John Quigley, "A Reading of the International Court of Justice Opinion on the Legality of Israel's Wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territories," The Palestine Center: A Briefing Paper (July, 2004). Susan Akram & Terry Rempel, "Temporary Protection as an Instrument for Implementing the Right of Return for Palestinian Refugees," 22 Boston University International Law Journal 1 (2004). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Susan Akram & Kevin R. Johnson, "U.S. Measures Against Terrorism: The Civil Rights Impacts," in Anti-Terrorist Measures and Human Rights 137, Wolfgang Benedek & Alice Yotopoulos-Marangopoulos, eds., Martinus Nijhoff Publishers (2004). Susan Akram, "The Aftermath of September 11, 2001: The Targeting of Arabs and Muslims in America," 24 (Special Issue) Arab Studies Quarterly 61 (2002). Susan Akram, "Orientalism Revisited in Asylum and Refugee Claims," in Human Rights and Moral Imperialism: A Critical Anthology 61, Berta Hernandez-Truyol, ed., New York University Press (2002). Susan Akram, "Palestinian Refugees and Their Legal Status: Rights, Politics and Implications for a Just Solution," 31 Journal of Palestine Studies 36 (Spring 2002). Susan Akram & Kevin R. Johnson, "Race, Civil Rights, and Immigration Law After September 11, 2001: The Targeting of Arabs and Muslims," 58 New York University Annual Survey of American Law 295 (2002). Reprinted in 24 Immigration and Nationality Law Review 3 (2003).Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Susan Akram & Guy Goodwin-Gill, "Brief Amicus Curiae on the Status of Palestinian Refugees under International Law," 11 Palestine Yearbook of International Law (2000-01). Susan Akram & Terry Rempel, "Durable Solutions for Palestinian Refugees: A Challenge to the Oslo Process," 11 Palestine Yearbook of International Law (2000-01). Susan Akram, "Reinterpreting Palestinian Refugee Rights under International Law," in Palestinian Refugees and the Right of Return 165, Naseer Aruri, ed., Pluto Press (2001). Susan Akram, "Fora Available for Palestinian Refugee Restitution, Compensation and Related Claims," BADIL - Information & Discussion Brief (2000). [English and Arabic] Susan Akram, "Orientalism Revisited in Asylum and Refugee Claims," 12 International Journal of Refugee Law 7 (2000). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Susan Akram, "Palestinian Refugee Rights: Parts 1, 2 and 3," in Information Briefs , The Center for Policy Analysis on Palestine (July & August 2000). [News & Analysis section]Publisher Susan Akram, "Reinterpreting Palestinian Refugee Rights Under International Law, and a Framework for Durable Solutions," Conference Briefing Papers (2000). Conference: The Right of Return: Palestinian Refugees and Prospects for a Durable Peace Susan Akram, "Temporary Protected Status and its Applicability to the Palestinian Refugee Case," BADIL - Information & Discussion Brief (2000). [In English and Arabic] Susan Akram, "Immigration and National Identity: Membership, Difference and (Trans)National Imagination," 93 American Society of International Law Proceedings 212 (1999). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Susan Akram, "Scheherezade Meets Kafka: Two Dozen Sordid Tales of Ideological Exclusion," 14 Georgetown Immigration Law Journal 51 (1999). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Susan Akram, "The World Refugee Regime in Crisis: A Failure to Fulfill the Burdensharing and Humanitarian Requirements of the 1951 Refugee Convention," 93 American Society of International Law Proceedings 213 (1999). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Susan Akram, Immigration and Nationality Law Handbook, v.2, Advanced Topics, Susan Akram, ed., American Immigration Lawyers' Association (1995). Susan Akram, "Traps for the Unwary, or Major Issues on Judicial Review of Deportation Decisions under INA Section 106," in The Immigration & Nationality Law Handbook , American Immigration Lawyers' Association (1995). Susan Akram et al., Medical Testimony on Victims of Torture: A Physician's Guide to Political Asylum Cases, Physicians for Human Rights (1991). Susan Akram, "Historic Court Decision Protects First Amendment Rights of Dissident Aliens," 18 Immigration Newsletter (Spring 1989). Susan Akram, Asylum - A Guide to Establishing Pro Bono Programs, Immigrant Legal Resource Center, Palo Alto (1987). Courses Int'l Human Rights Clinic: Human Rights Advocacy (S): LAW JD 843 3 credits THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to students who have formally applied to and been accepted to the International Human Rights Clinic. This is the companion spring classroom component for students in the Clinic. The course focuses on further developing skills in the context of the substantive law and mechanisms of the Inter-American Human Rights system. Classes will cover: interviewing and counseling institutional (non-governmental organizations) clients; designing and implementing human rights field research; ethical pitfalls and professional 'best practices' in human rights collaborations with international networks; advocacy within the Inter-American machinery; and simulations using comparative and foreign human rights problems. The classes will be a combination of readings and discussion; simulations; student presentations; short papers and case rounds to discuss project work; and group and individual feedback on project development. NOTE: This course counts towards the 6 credit Experiential Learning requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 843 A1 , Jan 11th to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 3 Susan M. AkramStaff SPRG 2020: LAW JD 843 A1 , Jan 15th to Apr 15th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 3 Susan M. AkramStaff LAW 518 International Human Rights Clinic (C): LAW JD 975 3 credits THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to students who have formally applied to and been accepted to the International Human Rights Clinic. Students in the Clinic work on policy issues on behalf of institutional clients that represent refugees, forced migrants, immigrants, and stateless persons. Students work on long-term human rights projects such as: working with NGOs in advocacy in the UN human rights system or in regional organs (e.g. Inter-American and European human rights bodies); advocating for durable solutions to statelessness and citizenship deprivation in the Middle East; and organizing workshops and presentations to major stakeholders around the world. Students conduct legal and factual research and outreach to partners and project strategy development, and prepare written reports and submissions to international and regional agencies. The clinic fieldwork may include international travel. PRE/CO-REQUISITE: International Human Rights (LAW JD 991). NOTE: The International Human Rights Clinic counts towards the 6 credit Experiential Learning requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. FALL 2020: LAW JD 975 A1 , Aug 31st to Dec 7th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room ARR TBD TBD 3 Susan M. AkramStaff SPRG 2021: LAW JD 975 A1 , Jan 11th to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room ARR TBD TBD 3 Susan M. AkramStaff FALL 2019: LAW JD 975 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 5th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room ARR TBD TBD 3 Susan M. AkramStaff SPRG 2020: LAW JD 975 A1 , Jan 13th to Apr 23rd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room ARR TBD TBD 3 Susan M. AkramStaff International Human Rights Clinic: Skills Seminar: LAW JD 840 3 credits THIS CLASS IS RESTRICTED to students who have formally applied to and been accepted to the International Human Rights Clinic. This course is the companion fall classroom component for students enrolled in the Clinic and provides an introduction to essential lawyering skills, with a focus on those relevant to the practice of human rights law. The goal of the course is to help students develop a wide range of competencies, including written and oral communication and advocacy, legal research, factual investigation, witness interviewing, professional responsibility, and strategic thinking and problem-solving. NOTE: This course counts towards the 6 credit Experiential Learning requirement. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. FALL 2020: LAW JD 840 A1 , Sep 2nd to Dec 2nd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 3 Susan M. Akram LAW 420 FALL 2019: LAW JD 840 A1 , Sep 4th to Dec 4th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Wed 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 3 Susan M. Akram LAW 518 In the MediaSeptember 2, 2020US Punishes International Criminal Court for Investigating Potential War Crimes in AfghanistanA piece by Susan Akram. read moreAugust 19, 2020The Pandemic Shows that Now Is the Time to End Immigration DetentionA piece by Susan Akram. read moreAugust 13, 2020Why the Executive Order on the ICC is Unconstitutional and Self-DefeatingA piece by Susan Akram. read moreNovember 27, 2019Discussion Sparks Talk of Inclusion, Openness for Somerville Immigrant CommunitySusan Akram mentionedin The Somerville Times. read moreJune 27, 2019Factchecking Oklahoma: What Caused the Migrant Children Crisis?Susan Akram is quoted in Oklahoma Gazette. read moreMay 29, 2019Americans Should Know More About The March Of ReturnSusan Akram authors an op-ed for Cognoscenti. read moreOctober 1, 2018The Trump Administration Is Trying to Reduce the Number of Palestinian Refugees, Heres Why It Wont WorkAkram contributed to Mondoweiss read moreAugust 21, 2018Finding Home: Refugees Struggle to Settle in EgyptSusan M. Akram quoted in The Globe Post. read moreAugust 14, 2018Whats Driving the Migrant Crisis at Our Southern Border?Susan Akram authored "What's Driving the Migrant Crisis at Our Southern Border?"WBUR Cognoscenti read moreJuly 5, 2018Few Gang Members are Undocumented Immigrants: ReportSusan Akram quoted in The Crime Report. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
