Sean J. Kealy | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Sean J. Kealy Clinical Associate Professor of Law AB, Hamilton College MGA, University of Pennsylvania, Fels Institute of Government JD, cum laude, Temple University School of Law Areas of Interest Constitutional Law, Criminal Law & Procedure, Legislative Process Contact Office Room 1303D Email skealy@bu.edu Phone 617-353-8373 Full CVGoogle Scholar Page Biography Sean Kealy graduated from Temple Law School in 1994. He was an assistant attorney general from 1995-1999 where he worked on victim compensation claims and prosecuted insurance fraud. From 1999-2007 he worked as legal advisor to State Senator Cynthia Stone Creem (D-Newton) and counsel to the General Courts Joint Committee on Criminal Justice and the Joint Committee on Revenue. While working for the Legislature, Professor Kealy had the opportunity to work on many notable issues such as: the revised sex offender registry, the creation of buffer zones around reproductive health clinics, drunk driving legislation, modernizing corporate tax laws, creating new tax credits to encourage economic development, legalizing and encouraging stem cell research, and ensuring equal marriage rights. Professor Kealy has taught criminal justice at Massachusetts Bay Community College and Suffolk University and has written law review articles on a variety of topics dealing with statutory changes to protect victims rights, improve the definition of murder and revise the Federal Posse Comitatus Act. He also co-edits a bi-monthly newsletter on recent changes to the criminal law that is distributed to prosecutors, members of law enforcement, defense attorneys and academics. Publications Sean Kealy, M. Bautista & L. Rulli, American Legislative Practice, West Publishing Co. (forthcoming). Sean Kealy, "Introduction to the Professor Robert Seidman Memorial Issue," 20 European Journal of Law Reform 3 (2018). Publisher Sean Kealy & Alex Fomey, "The Reliability of Evidence in Evidence-Based Legislation," 20 European Journal of Law Reform (2018). Sean Kealy, "A Guide to Gathering and Using Legislative History in Massachusetts," 97 Massachusetts Law Review 46 (2016). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Publisher Sean Kealy, African Parliamentary Knowledge Network Legislative Handbook: Using Evidence to Design and Assess Legislation, African Parliamentary Knowledge Network (2013). Scholarly Commons Sean Kealy, "The Second Amendment as Interpreted by Congress and the Court," 3 Northeastern University Law Journal 325 (2011). Sean Kealy, "Reexamining the Posse Comitatus Act: Toward a Right to Civil Law Enforcement," 21 Yale Law & Policy Review 383 (2003). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Sean Kealy, "Hunting the Dragon: Reforming the Massachusetts Murder Statute," 10 Boston University Public Interest Law Journal 203 (2001). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Sean Kealy, "A Proposal for a New Massachusetts Notoriety for Profit Law: The Grandson of Sam," 22 Western New England Law Review 1 (2000). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline In the MediaJune 19, 2020Militarization of Policing Risks Turning US Cities into BattlespacesSean Kealy authors a POV. read moreMarch 10, 2020Trump NY Subpoena Must Stand, Ex-DOJ Attys Tell JusticesSean Kealy and Jim Wheaton are featured in Law360. read moreJanuary 26, 2020Associate Dean of LAW to Testify at Hearing for Hair Discrimination BillAnna di Robilant, AngelaOnwuachi-Willig, and Sean Kealy quoted in The Daily Free Press. read moreJanuary 17, 2020States and Cities are Banning Hair Discrimination. Heres How thats Affecting SchoolsAngela Onwuachi-Willig andSean Kealy quoted in Chalkbeat.org. read moreDecember 16, 2019Make Schools Play Fair on Hair: Stop Allowing Religious Schools to Discriminate against Cornrows and LocsAngela Onwuachi-Willig and Sean Kealy pen article in the New York Daily News. read moreFebruary 23, 2017Section 35: Saving the Lives of Addicts That Dont Want to Be SavedSean Kealy quoted in "Section 35: Saving the Lives of Addicts That Don't Want to Be Saved," Fox 25. read moreAugust 18, 2016Citizen panel to explore marijuana legalization with help from expertsSean Kealy, clinical associate professor of law at Boston University School of Law, is on a panel of experts working with the Citizens I... read moreSeptember 21, 2015Bill Drafters Weigh In on Legislative PolicySean Kealy featured by National Conference of State Legislatures read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
