Karen Pita Loor | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Karen Pita Loor Associate Dean for Experiential Education Clinical Associate Professor of Law BS, magna cum laude, Barry University JD, cum laude, Washington College of Law, American University Areas of Interest Criminal Law & Procedure, Immigrants Rights, Immigration Law & Policy, Protest Policing Contact Office Room 1303A Email loork@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3131 Full CV Biography Read the Statement on Race, Equity & Justice from the Clinical & Experiential Faculty. Karen Pita Loor assumed her role of associate dean of clinical & experiential education on July 1, 2020 after eight years teaching and supervising student attorneys in the Defender Division of the BUCriminal Law Clinical Program as they represent indigent clients charged with crimes in the Boston District Court. Loor also teaches a seminar that she developed entitled Regulation of the Immigrant Experience where students examine, through a legal lens, the obstacles immigrants face in American society. As associate dean of experiential education, Loor understands that through BU Laws various clinics, practicums, and externships, students learn, engage in valuable public interest and service work, and build productive working relationships with practicing attorneys. She views these programs as part of BUs connection to and impact on its community, as BU Law students practice in local courtsand even on the worldas students travel on international legal services projects. Recognizing the impact that BU Law clinical students are having in real time and will have as practicing attorneys, Loors main priorities entail instituting training and support for students as they work to become culturally competent lawyers and encouraging them to explore systemic problems related to poverty, race, and other intersecting identities that affect the client population of many of the clinics. Loor writes and speaks as an expert on issues related to protest policing, criminal law and procedure, police violence and immigrants rights. She encourages students to use their education to join conversations around legal matters and does the same. She hastestified in support of legislationthat would make Massachusetts a sanctuary state. She has organized trips involving law students and other faculty to the Mexican side of the border to assist migrants seeking asylum. She supervised a group of students whofiled an amicus briefin a first-of-its-kind case arguing that Massachusetts state and local law enforcement do not have the authority to detain a criminal defendant pursuant to an immigration detainer. Loor initially joined the BU Law clinical faculty in 2011 after serving as a clinical associate professor with the Florida International University College of Law, supervising law students representing unaccompanied immigrant children in immigration and neglect proceedings. She started her legal career as a staff attorney at the premier public defender office in the country, the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia, where she represented indigent clients in criminal trial and appellate matters. Publications Karen Pita Loor, "If the Conduct Is Expressive, Is the Police Force Excessive?" 94 Southern California Law Review (forthcoming). Karen Pita Loor, "Tear Gas + Water Hoses + Dispersal Orders: The Fourth Amendment Endorses Brutality in Protest Policing," in Symposium "Beyond Bad Apples: Exploring the Legal Determinants of Police Violence", 100 Boston University Law Review 817 (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Karen Pita Loor, "When Protest is the Disaster: Constitutional Implications of State and Local Emergency Power," 43 Seattle University Law Review 1 (2019). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Karen Pita Loor, "A Study on Immigrant Activism, Secure Communities, and Rawlsian Civil Disobedience," 100 Marquette Law Review 565 (2016). SSRN | Scholarly Commons In the MediaAugust 4, 2020Qualified Immunity Is Under Fire. Heres How The Legal Defense Has Played Out In Mass. CasesKaren Pita Loor quoted. read moreJuly 30, 2020Berkeley City Council Regulates Airbnb to Protect Affordable HousingKaren Pita Loor quoted. read moreJune 9, 2020Did the Curfews Work? Experts Arent So SureKaren Pita Loor quoted. read moreJune 8, 2020Columbus Mayor Ginther Drops Curfew after Lawsuit, Reduction of Violence in ProtestsKaren Pita Loor quoted. read moreJune 3, 2020Understand Curfews Before Its Too LateKaren Pita Loor interviewed. read moreOctober 30, 2019Annual BU Law Review Conference Tackles Police ViolenceAnnual BU Law Review Conference,Beyond Bad Apples: Exploring Legal Determinants of Police Violence, covered in the Daily Free Pre... read moreApril 24, 2019For First Time, States Highest Court Extends Right to Privacy to Cellphone Location DataKaren Pita Loor is quoted in the Boston Globe. read moreApril 3, 2019Courtroom Controversy: Housekeeper Accused of Stealing $72K DisappearsKaren Pita Loor is mentioned in NBC Boston. read moreFebruary 7, 2019Theres A Legal Crisis On Our Southern Border And It Was Caused By Our GovernmentJulie Dahlstrom, Karen Pita Loor, and Sarah Sherman-Stokes authored a piece for WBUR's Cognoscenti read moreApril 2, 2018Karen Pita Loor on DACA and ImmigrationKaren Pita Loor interviewed on WTBU read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
