Robert L. Tsai | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Robert L. Tsai Professor of Law BA, magna cum laude, University of California at Los Angeles JD, Yale Law School Areas of Interest Civil Rights, Constitutional Law, Criminal Law & Procedure, Jurisprudence, Law & Government, Law & Social Sciences, Legislative Process Contact Email rltsai@bu.edu Full CV Biography Robert L. Tsai is joining the faculty in January 2021 as Professor of Law at Boston University School of Law, where he teaches courses in constitutional law, presidential leadership, and individual rights. He is keenly interested in political culture, legal change, democratic design, inequality, and popular sovereignty. Professor Tsai is the author of three books: Practical Equality: Forging Justice in a Divided Nation (W.W. Norton 2019); Americas Forgotten Constitutions: Defiant Visions of Power and Community (Harvard 2014); and Eloquence and Reason: Creating a First Amendment Culture (Yale 2008). Joshua Rothman, writer for the New Yorker, observed, The gap between intuition and argumentbetween outrage and the best response to that outrageis the subject of Robert Tsais Practical Equality. Aziz Rana hailed Americas Forgotten Constitutions as a remarkable feat of excavation in the Texas Law Review, while Susan McWilliams called the book magisterial one of the most captivating works on American political thought and constitutional history to be written in the last several years. In Perspectives on Politics, Beau Breslin said Tsais first book, Eloquence and Reason, was fresh, sophisticated the theory presented is subtle in its complexity, while legal historian Anders Walker deemed it nuanced, novel, and compelling. Professor Tsai is currently working on a manuscript titled, Ask the Impossible: Race, Poverty, and One Mans Quest for Equal Justice (under contract with W.W. Norton), that explores the life and times of Stephen Bright, who for nearly 40 years led the Southern Center for Human Rights. SCHRs experiences handling capital cases and prison condition suits teach us about the strategies and ideas that worked during the early decades of mass incarceration in America. Professor Tsai has authored numerous law review articles and peer-edited essays. A representative sample of his work includes: Inequality During a Pandemic, Parts I-II, Harvard Law Review Online (2020); Manufactured Emergencies,129 Yale Law Journal Forum 350 (2020); Racial Purges, 118 Michigan Law Review 1127 (2020); Constitutional Borrowing, 108 Michigan Law Review 459 (2010); John Browns Constitution, 51 Boston College Law Review 151 (2010); Reconsidering Gobitis: An Exercise in Presidential Leadership, 86 Washington University Law Review 363 (2008); and Fire, Metaphor, and Constitutional Myth-Making, 93 Georgetown Law Journal 181 (2004). His scholarship has been featured by the New Yorker, NPR, MSNBC, Morning Joe, American Scholar, Daily Beast, Boston Globe, and Harvard Law Review. Additionally, he has served as a legal commentator on Meet the Press and MSNBC. His popular writings have appeared in the Washington Post, Politico, Boston Globe, Slate, and Boston Review. Tsai is a graduate of Yale Law School and the University of California, Los Angeles. After law school, he clerked for Denny Chin, U.S. District Court, S.D.N.Y., and Hugh Bownes, U.S. Court of Appeals, First Circuit. Before joining BU Law, Professor Tsai taught at American University. He has also taught at the University of Oregon. In fall 2019, he served as the Clifford Scott Green Chair and Visiting Professor of Law at Temple University. Publications Robert Tsai, "Equality Is a Brokered Idea," 88 George Washington Law Review Arguendo 1 (2020). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, "Manufactured Emergencies," 129 Yale Law Journal Forum 590 (2020). (invited essay on national emergencies)Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, "Racial Purges," review of Beth Lew-Williams, The Chinese Must Go: Violence, Exclusion, and the Making of the Alien in America, Harvard University Press (2018), 118 Michigan Law Review 1127 (2020). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Supreme Court Precedent and the Politics of Repudiation," in Law's Infamy , Austin Sarat, ed., University of Massachusetts Press (forthcoming). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Considerations of History and Purpose in Constitutional Borrowing," in Symposium Constitutional Rights: Intersections, Synergies, and Conflicts, 28 William and Mary Bill of Rights Journal 517 (2019). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, "The Hidden Costs of Dissent," 34 Constitutional Commentary 489 (2019). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, "Immigration Unilateralism and American Ethnonationalism," 51 Loyola University Chicago Law Journal 523 (2019). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, Practical Equality: Forging Justice in a Divided Nation, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc. (2019). Robert Tsai, "Obama's Conversion on Same-Sex Marriage: The Social Foundations of Individual Rights," 50 Connecticut Law Review 1 (2018). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Legal Language: Expansion, Consolidation, Resistance," in The Routledge Research Companion to Law and Humanities in Nineteenth-Century America , Nan Goodman & Simon Stern, eds., Routledge (2017). SSRN Robert Tsai, "A Tradition at War with Itself: A Reply to Professor Ranas Review of Americas Forgotten Constitutions: Defiant Visions of Power and Community," 94 Texas Law Review See Also 60 (2016). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, "Three Arguments About War," 30 Constitutional Commentary 1 (2015). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, Americas Forgotten Constitutions: Defiant Visions of Power and Community, Harvard University Press (2014). Robert Tsai, "Conclusion The Migration of Legal Ideas: Legislative Design and the Lawmaking Process," in Comparative Law in Legislative Drafting: The Increasing Importance of Dialogue Amongst Parliaments , Nicola Lupo & Lucia Scaffardi, eds., Eleven International Publishing (2014). SSRN Robert Tsai, "'Simple' Takes on the Supreme Court," 5 Alabama Civil Rights & Civil Liberties Law Review 35 (2013). Publisher | SSRN Robert Tsai, "Introduction: The Politics of Hate," 10 Journal of Hate Studies 9 (2012). SSRN Robert Tsai & Nelson Tebbe, "Constitutional Borrowing," 108 Michigan Law Review 459 (2010). SSRN Robert Tsai, "The Ethics of Melancholy Citizenship," 89 Oregon Law Review 557 (2010). SSRN Robert Tsai, "John Brown's Constitution," 51 Boston College Law Review 151 (2010). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Chambers v. Florida," in Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court of the United States, David S. Tanenhaus, ed., Macmillan Reference USA, 280 (2008). Robert Tsai, Eloquence and Reason: Creating a First Amendment Culture, Yale University Press (2008). Robert Tsai, "First Amendment," in Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court of the United States, David S. Tanenhaus, ed., Macmillan Reference USA, 218 (2008). Robert Tsai, "Public Forum," in Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court of the United States, David S. Tanenhaus, ed., Macmillan Reference USA, 148 (2008). Robert Tsai, "ReconsideringGobitis: An Exercise in Presidential Leadership," 86 Washington University School of Law Review 363 (2008). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Democracy's Handmaid," 86 Boston University Law Review 1 (2006). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Sacred Visions of Law," 90 Iowa Law Review 1095 (2005). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Fire, Metaphor, and Constitutional Myth-Making," 93 Georgetown Law Journal 181 (2004). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Speech and Strife," 67 Law & Contemporary Problems 83 (2004). SSRN Robert Tsai, "Conceptualizing Constitutional Litigation as Anti-Government Expression: a Speech-Centered Theory of Court Access," 51 American University Law Review 835 (2002). SSRN In the MediaNovember 21, 2020Trump Campaign Presses On With US Election Fight But Chances Are DimmingRobert Tsai is quoted. read moreNovember 6, 2020Robert Tsai on Boston Public Radio: The State of the Presidential RaceRobert Tsai is interviewed. read moreNovember 5, 2020Can President Trump Really Stop the Vote Counting?Robert Tsai is quoted. read moreOctober 30, 2020What If There Is No Winner on Election Night? A BU Expert ExplainsRobert Tsai interviewed. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
