Cornelius K. Hurley | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Cornelius K. Hurley Lecturer BA, Holy Cross College JD, Georgetown University PMD, Harvard University Areas of Interest Banking & Financial Instruments Contact Office 53 Bay State Road Email ckhurley@bu.edu Phone 617-353-5427 Full CV Biography Cornelius Hurley has over 35 years of diversified legal, entrepreneurial, and academic experience in the financial sector. His teaching and research interests focus upon the interactions between finance and the real economy. He serves an independent director of Computershare Trust Company, N.A., an element of one of the global leaders in the transfer agent business, and of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, one of the three so-called GSEs. Hurley established the Boston office of The Secura Group, Washington, DC a national financial services consulting firm of which he was a partner. Formerly, he was general counsel of Shawmut Corporation, a regional bank holding company. As assistant general counsel of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, he was responsible for the Feds role in regulating international banking activities. Prof. Hurley also serves as reporter to the American Bar Associations Task Force on Financial Markets Regulatory Reform. Hurley was appointed by Boston Universitys provost to serve as the first director of the Universitys Center for Finance, Law & Policy. The Center is an interdisciplinary initiative drawing upon the deep and varied academic talent of the University to focus upon finance and financial policy issues. He was the director for the Morin Center for Banking and Financial Law and the Graduate Program in Banking and Financial Law from 2005 to 2011. He is the author of numerous articles and commentaries that have appeared in The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Financial Times, American Banker, The Boston Globe and other publications. During the current economic crisis, he has provided ongoing analysis on national and local television and radio outlets. Hurley teaches Lessons from the Financial Crisis. Publications Cornelius Hurley & Rebecca Hicks Gallup, "The Federal Home Loan Bank System: A Vehicle for Job Creation and Job Retention," 30 Review of Banking and Financial Law 609 (2011). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Cornelius Hurley, review of David A. Skeel Jr., The New Financial Deal: Understanding the Dodd-Frank Act and Its (Unintended) Consequences, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (2011), 30:5 American Bankruptcy Institute Journal 40 (2011). Cornelius Hurley, "Too Safe to Fail: Requiring Big Banks to Build Cash Reserves Can Prevent Future Failures," Washington Times Opinion (March 3, 2011). Publisher Cornelius Hurley, "Paying the Price for Too Big to Fail," 4 Entrepreneurial Business Law Journal (2009). Publisher Cornelius Hurley, "Commentary: Getting It Right the Next Time on 'Too Big to Fail," Reuters.com (2008). Publisher Cornelius Hurley, "We Have Equity; Now Give Us Oversight," American Banker 10 (Oct. 24, 2008). Cornelius Hurley & John A. Beccia III, The Compliance Function in Diversified Financial Institutions: Harmonizing the Regulatory Environment for Financial Services Firms, BU Law, Morin Center (Jul. 2007). In the MediaNovember 18, 2020McConnells First Act of SabotageCornelius Hurley is interviewed. read moreApril 1, 2020Can Banks Help Rescue Country Without Undercutting Themselves?Cornelius Hurley quoted in American Banker. read moreApril 1, 2019With lawyer as interim CEO, Wells Fargo looks to mend fences with regulatorsCornelius Hurley is mentioned in American Banker. read moreFebruary 4, 2019Democrats Tax Plans Reflect Profound Shift in Public MoodCornelius Hurley quoted in the Washington Post. read moreSeptember 18, 2018Banks Are Running Out of Time to Regain Public TrustCornelius Hurley quoted in American Banker. read moreJuly 24, 2018Still paying full retail for downtown parking? The car next to you might be getting a better deal.Cornelius Hurley quoted in "Still paying full retail for downtown parking? The car next to you might be getting a better deal,"The Bost... read moreJune 19, 2018Wells Fargo Workers Push for More Board Access, So Far in VainCornelius Hurley quoted in "Wells Fargo Workers Push for More Board Access, So Far in Vain,"Finance Time. read moreJune 23, 2017How Barclays U.K. Fraud Case May Rekindle Too Big to Jail IreCornelius Hurley quoted in "How Barclays' U.K. Fraud Case May Rekindle 'Too Big to Jail' Ire," Yahoo Finance. read moreMay 2, 2017Trump Eyes Breakup of Big Banks While Wooing Their Smaller RivalsCornelius Hurley quoted in The Street. read moreApril 10, 2017Libor Traders Acquitted in London CourtCornelius Hurley quoted in "Libor Traders Acquitted in London Court," Bloomberg. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
