CARB-X Global Partnership | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: CARB-X Global PartnershipCARB-X is a global non-profit partnership, led by Boston University, to fund the early development of innovative antibiotics, rapid diagnostics, vaccines and other life-saving products to address the rising threat of drug-resistant bacteria. Faculty & ScholarshipCARB-X Fighting superbugs on a global scale Bacteria develop resistance to antibiotics at an increasingly rapid pace. Even the most powerful last resort drugs are becoming less effective as resistance grows. The world urgently needs new treatments, diagnostics and preventatives to address the drug-resistance crisis. But innovation has not kept pace with the rise of drug resistance. The World Health Organization estimates that 700,000 people die each year from drug-resistant bacterial infection. CARB-X supports the worlds largest and most diverse antibacterial pipeline of early develop R&D projects. And it continues to grow. What CARB-X does CARB-X is investing more than $500 million in antibacterial R&D between 2016-2021 to support the development of new antibiotics, vaccines, diagnostics and other products. The goal is to support projects through the early phases of development through Phase 1, so that they will attract additional support for further clinical development and approval for use in patients. CARB-X focuses exclusively on high priority drug-resistant bacteria, especially Gram-negatives. Funding is restricted to projects that target drug-resistant bacteria highlighted on the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)s 2013 Antibiotic Resistant Threats list, or thePriority Bacterial Pathogens list published by the WHO in 2017 with a priority on those pathogens deemed Serious or Urgent on the CDC list or Critical or High on the WHO list. Read more Portfolio Companies Where the funding comes from CARB-X funding is provided bytheBiomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority(BARDA), part of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; theWellcome Trust,a global charity based in the UK working to improve health globally;Germanys Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF);the UKDepartment of Health and Social CaresGlobal Antimicrobial Resistance Innovation Fund (UK GAMRIF); theBill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and with in-kind support fromNational Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases(NIAID), part of the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. CARB-X is headquartered at Boston University School of Law. Read more How CARB-X works Led by executive director and principal investigatorKevin Outterson, BU Professor of Law and the N. Neal Pike Scholar in Health & Disability Law, the CARB-X team reviews applications and manages relationships with product developers and collaborators focused on advancing antibacterial research. As an accelerator, CARB-X is unique in that it provides funding and business and scientific support for projects around the world. CARB-X non-dilutive funding is in addition to investments made by the companies themselves. CARB-X provides business and scientific support for projects through theCARB-X Global Accelerator Network, anetwork of 10 expert organizations in six countries. Read more How projects are selected Antibacterial research is scientifically challenging, costly and takes years.Projects are selected through a competitive process. Applications are reviewed by the CARB-X Advisory Board, and final investment decisions are taken by the Joint Oversight Committee, comprised of representatives of CARB-X funders. There is always a high risk of failure in the early stages of research. But if successful, these projects, hold exciting potential in the fight against the deadliest bacteria. If only one succeeds, we will have made tremendous progress. Read more More information: carbxpr@bu.edu School of Law Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program CARB-X News December 10, 2020 Non-Profits Fill Gaps in the Broken Market for Antibiotics CARB-X is featured. December 10, 2020 CARB-X Wins Prestigious Award for Efforts to Combat Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria Kevin Outterson is quoted. November 21, 2020 Clarametyx Biosciences Awarded up to $14.2 Million From CARB-X to Accelerate Novel Immune-Enabling Technology to Combat Persistent Bacterial Infections Funding agreement fuels development of platform targeting universal structure within biofilms to eliminate bacterial defenses and sensitize to immune or antibiotic intervention. CARB-X at BU Law BU Law guides global effort to combat antibiotic-resistant superbugs. Kevin Outterson Professor of Law and N. Neal Pike Scholar in Health & Disability Law to serve as executive director of CARB-X. BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
