Susan P. Koniak | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Susan P. Koniak Professor of Law Emeritus BA magna cum laude, New York University JD, Yale Law School Areas of Interest Civil Procedure, Constitutional Law, Legal Ethics Contact Email spkoniak@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3136 SSRN Author Page Biography Professor Susan Koniak says the key to being a good legal teacher is to never lose sight of ones key responsibility: to produce good lawyers. When Im standing in front of the students, its not about me, its about them. Its my responsibility to ensure that they have a solid understanding of the material, and more important, the analytical skills and practical judgment that form the foundation of good lawyering, she says. A distinguished scholar as well as educator, Professor Koniak joined the Schools faculty in 1993, after teaching at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law for five years. In addition to her responsibilities at Boston University, Professor Koniak has, in recent years, been a visiting professor at Harvard Law School, Cornell Law School and the Yale School of Organization and Management. She has published many articles and has co-authored three significant textbooks: The Law and Ethics of Lawyering, now in its 4th edition, Leading Constitutional Decisions, Cases in Constitutional Law and an anthology of essays, Foundations of the Law and Ethics of Lawyering. Professor Koniak testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on the conduct of lawyers involved in the Enron debacle and other similar corporate scandals, and before the House Judiciary Committee on abusive conduct of class action lawyers. She is frequently quoted in the media on the conduct of lawyers, class action practice and the responsibility of secondary actors, such as lawyers and accountants, in securities and other financial fraud. Publications Roger C. Cramton, Susan Koniak, Geoffrey C. Hazard & George M. Cohen, The Law and Ethics of Lawyering, 4th ed., Foundation Press (2005). Foundations of the Law and Ethics of Lawyering, Susan Koniak & George M. Cohen, eds., Foundation Press (2004). Susan Koniak, "How Like a Winter? The Plight of Absent Class Members Denied Adequate Representation," 79 Notre Dame Law Review 1787 (2004). Susan Koniak, "Interviewing Ex-employees: One Answer, New Questions," 48 Boston Bar Journal 6 (2004). Susan Koniak, "The Lawlessness in Our Courts," ATLA Annual Convention Reference Materials __ (2004). Susan Koniak, George M. Cohen & Roger C. Cramton, "Legal and Ethical Duties of Lawyers After Sarbanes-Oxley," 49 Villanova Law Review 725 (2004). Susan Koniak, "Corporate Fraud: See Lawyers," 26 Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy 195 (2003). Susan Koniak & David Dana, "Secret Settlements and Practice Restrictions Aid Lawyer Cartels and Cause Other Harms," in Symposium on Ethics 2000 and Beyond: Reform or Professional Responsibility as Usual? 2003 University of Illinois Law Review 1217 (2003). Susan Koniak, "When the Hurlyburly's Done: The Bar's Struggle with the SEC," 103 Columbia Law Review 1236 (2003). Reprinted in Enron: Corporate Fiasos and Their Implications 807, N. B. Rapoport & B. G. Dharan, eds., Foundation Press (2004). Susan Koniak, "Are Agreements to Keep Secret Information in Discovery Legal, Illegal or Something in Between?" 30 Hofstra Law Review 78 (2002). Susan Koniak & George M. Cohen, "In Hell There Will be Lawyers Without Clients or Law," 30 Hofstra Law Review 129 (2001). Susan Koniak & George M. Cohen, "In Hell There Will be Lawyers Without Clients or Law," in Ethics in the Practice of Law 177, D. Rhode, ed., Oxford University Press (2000). Susan Koniak & David Dana, "Bargaining in the Shadow of Democracy," 148 University of Pennsylvania Law Review 473 (1999). Susan Koniak, Geoffrey C. Hazard & Roger C. Cramton, The Law and Ethics of Lawyering, 3rd ed., Foundation Press (1999). Susan Koniak, "The Other Way Round," 5 Roger Williams University Law Review 145 (1999). Susan Koniak, "The Lawlessness in Our Courts," 28 Stetson Law Review 281 (1998). Susan Koniak, "The Chosen People in our Wilderness," review of Morris Dees, Gathering Storm: America's Militia Threat, HarperCollins Publishers (1996) and Catherine McNicol Stock, Rural Radicals: Righteous Rage in the American Grain, Cornell University Press (1996), 95 Michigan Law Review 1761 (1997). Susan Koniak, "Class Action Against Class Counsel," 1 Journal of the Institute for the Study of Legal Ethics 249 (1996). Susan Koniak, "Law and Ethics in a World of Rights and No Wrongs," 9 Canadian Journal of Law and Jurisprudence 11 (1996). Susan Koniak, "Principled Opinions," 65 Fordham Law Review 337 (1996). Susan Koniak & Roger C. Cramton, "Rules, Story and Commitment in the Teaching of Legal Ethics," 38 William and Mary Law Review 145 (1996). Susan Koniak & George M. Cohen, "Under Cloak of Settlement," 82 Virginia Law Review 1051 (1996). Susan Koniak, "When Law Risks Madness," 8 Cardozo Studies in Law and Literature 65 (1996). Susan Koniak, "Feasting While the Widow Weeps: Georgine v. Amchen Products," 80 Cornell Law Review 1045 (1995). Susan Koniak & Geoffrey C. Hazard, "Paying Attention to the Signs," 58 Law & Contemporary Problems 117 (Summer/Autumn 1995). Susan Koniak, "Through the Looking Glass of Ethics and the Wrong with Rights We Find There," 9 Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics 1 (1995). Susan Koniak & Robert F. Cushman, Cases in Civil Liberties, 6th ed., Prentice Hall (1994). Susan Koniak & Robert F. Cushman, Cases in Constitutional Law, 8th ed., Prentice Hall (1994). Susan Koniak, Geoffrey C. Hazard & Roger C. Cramton, The Law and Ethics of Lawyering, 2d ed., Foundation Press (1994). Susan Koniak, "When Courts Refuse to Frame the Law and Others Frame It to Their Will," 66 Southern California Law Review 1075 (1993). Susan Koniak, "The Law Between the Bar and the State," 70 North Carolina Law Review 1390 (1992). Susan Koniak & Robert F. Cushman, Leading Constitutional Decisions, 18th ed., Prentice-Hall (1992). Susan Koniak, "Whose Law Is It Anyway?" review of Jay A. Sigler & Joseph E. Murphy, Corporate Lawbreaking and Interactive Compliance: Resolving the Regulation-Deregulation Dichotomy, Quorum Books (1991), 9 Yale Journal on Regulation 575 (1992). Susan Koniak & Geoffrey C. Hazard, The Law and Ethics of Lawyering, Foundation Press (1990). Susan Koniak & Robert F. Cushman, Cases in Civil Liberties, 5th ed., Prentice-Hall (1989). Susan Koniak & Robert F. Cushman, Cases in Constitutional Law, 7th ed., Prentice-Hall (1989). Susan Koniak & Robert D. Raven, "The Challenge for Lawyers in the '90s," 7 California Lawyer 19 (1987). Susan Koniak & Robert F. Cushman, Leading Constitutional Decisions, 17th ed., Prentice-Hall (1986). In the MediaMay 5, 2020Will Lawsuits Help College Students Get Coronavirus Refunds?Susan Koniak quoted in Forbes. read moreDecember 15, 2017Secret Court Settlements are a Scourge on SocietySusan P. Koniak and David. A. Dana publish in The Washington Post read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
