Angela Onwuachi-Willig | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Angela Onwuachi-Willig Dean Professor of Law BA, Grinnell College JD, University of Michigan Law School MA, Yale University M Phil, Yale University PhD, Yale University Areas of Interest Civil Rights, Critical Race Theory, Employment Law, Evidence Law, Family Law, Gender Matters, Race and Law, Torts Contact Office 1102E Email aow@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3112 Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Angela Onwuachi-Willig is dean and professor of law at Boston University School of Law. A renowned legal scholar and expert in critical race theory, employment discrimination, and family law, she joined the law school as dean in August 2018. Before joining the School of Law, Dean Onwuachi-Willig served as Chancellors Professor of Law at the University of California, Berkeley School of Law. Previously, she taught at the University of Iowa College of Law, where she was the Charles and Marion Kierscht Professor and at the University of California, Davis, King Hall, where she was acting (assistant) professor of law. As a classroom teacher at her previous institutions, she taught employment discrimination, evidence, family law, critical race theory, and torts. Onwuachi-Willig is author ofAccording to Our Hearts:Rhinelander v. Rhinelanderand theLaw of the Multiracial Family(Yale 2013). Her articles have appeared in leading law journals such as theYale Law Journal, Virginia Law Review, Northwestern University Law Review, California Law Review,Michigan Law Review,Georgetown Law Journal,Texas Law Review,UCLA Law Review, andVanderbilt Law Review, to name a few. Onwuachi-Willig is the recipient of numerous awards, including the Association of American Law Schools (AALS) Clyde Ferguson Award (2015), the AALS Derrick Bell Award (2006), the Gertrude Rush Award (2016) from the Iowa Organization of Women Attorneys and the Iowa Chapter of the National Bar Association, and Law and Societys John Hope Franklin, Jr., Prize (2018). Along with her coauthor Mario Barnes, she is the first faculty member to win both the Ferguson and Bell Awards. In the 201718 academic year, Onwuachi-Willig served as the William H. Neukom Fellows Research Chair in Diversity and Law at the American Bar Foundation. Most recently, she was nominated as an EXTRAordinary Woman in Boston, 2019. Onwuachi-Willig received the 2016 Collegiate Teaching Award at the University of Iowa College of Law and the 2012 Marion Huit Award, a University of Iowa award given to a faculty member in recognition of outstanding teaching and assistance to students, exceptional research and writing, and dedicated service to the University and the surrounding community. Other honors include her selection as a finalist for the Supreme Court of Iowa in 2011; identification by theNational Law Journalas one of the Minority 40 under 40 in 2011 and byLawyers of Coloras one of the 50 Law Professors of Color Under 50 in its inaugural list in 2013; and election to the American Law Institute (ALI), American Bar Foundation (ABF), and Iowa Bar Foundation. Onwuachi-Willigs leadership roles include her service on the Grinnell College board of trustees, the AALS Membership Review Committee, the Law School Admissions Council (LSAC) board, and the Warren-Markey Judicial Selection Committee. She also served as the Grinnell College Alumni Council president and the chair for AALS Committee on the Recruitment and Retention of Minority Law Teachers and Students for two years, leading the committee as it drafted and developed an official Statement of Good Practices on the Recruitment and Retention of Minority Law Teachers. She also is the founder of the Lutie A. Lytle Black Women Law Faculty Workshop, which has resulted in the production of many books and hundreds of articles and essays by its participants and has assisted dozens of women on the path to tenure. Onwuachi-Willig also has served as the chair of the AALS Minority Groups Section, the AALS Law and Humanities Section, and the AALS Employment Discrimination Section and was chair of the 2015 AALS Mid-Year Workshop. Onwuachi-Willig graduated from Grinnell College, Phi Beta Kappa, and received her JD from the University of Michigan, where she was a Clarence Darrow Scholar, aMichigan Law Reviewnote editor, and an associate editor for the founding issue of theMichigan Journal of Race and Law. After law school, she clerked for US District Court Judge Solomon Oliver of the Northern District of Ohio and US Sixth Circuit Judge Karen Nelson Moore. She received her PhD in sociology and African American studies from Yale University. She has practiced law as a labor and employment associate at Jones Day in Cleveland, Ohio and Foley Hoag in Boston, Massachusetts. Activities & Engagements Jan 29 2021 Keynote speaker Re-Imaging Legal Education: Courage, Conviction and Commitment A yearlong series by the American Bar Associations Council for Diversity in the Education Pipeline View All Activities & Engagements Publications Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Anthony Alfieri, "(Re)Framing Race in Civil Rights Lawyering," review of Henry Louis Gates Jr, Stony the Road: Reconstruction, White Supremacy, and the Rise of Jim Crow, Penguin Press (2019), 130 Yale Law Journal (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Catherine Smith, Tanya Washington, Lauren Fontana, Jessica Dixon Weaver & Cary Martin Shelby, Brief ofAmici CuriaeScholars of the Constitutional Rights and Interests of Children in Support of Respondents, Fulton v. City of Philadelphia, (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, David Oppenheimer & Nancy Leong, "Affirmative Action," 20 Berkeley Journal of African-American Law & Policy 1 (2019). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "From Emmett Till to Trayvon Martin: The Persistence of White Womanhood and the Preservation of White Manhood," 15 Du Bois Review: Social Science Research on Race 257 (2019). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "From Loving v. Virginia to Washington v. Davis: The Erosion of the Supreme Court's Equal Protection Intent Analysis," 25 Virginia Journal of Social Policy and Law 303 (2019). HeinOnline "Reconceptualizing the Harms of Discrimination: How Brown v. Board of Education Helped to Further White Supremacy," 105 Virginia Law Review 343 (2019). Publisher Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Law and Order: Rationalizing Racial Bias,," Boston Globe (September 23, 2019). Publisher Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Ifeoma Ajunwa, "Combating Discrimination Against the Formerly Incarcerated in the Labor Market," in Symposium "A Fear of Too Much Justice"?: Equal Protection and the Social Sciences Thirty Years After McCleskey v. Kemp, 112 Northwestern University Law Review 1385 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "What About #UsToo?: The Invisibility of Race in the #MeToo Movement," 128 Yale Law Journal Forum 105 (June 18, 2018). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Mark L. Hatzenbuehler, Javier E. Flores, Joseph E. Cavanaugh & Marizen R. Ramirez, "Anti-bullying Policies and Disparities in Bullying: A State-Level Analysis," 53 American Journal of Preventive Medicine 184 (2017). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Catherine Smith, Lauren Fontana, Tanya Washington & Barbara Bennett Woodhouse, Brief of Amici Curiae Scholars of The Constitutional Rights and Interests Of Children in Support of Respondents inMasterpiece Cakeshop LTD, et al v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, (2017). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Extending the Normativity of the Extended Family: Reflections on Moore v. City of East Cleveland," in Symposium Moore Kinship, 85 Fordham Law Review 2655 (2017). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Rebecca Bruening, Rosauro E. Orengo-Aguayo & Marizen R. Ramirez, "Implementation of Anti-bullying Legislation in Iowa Schools: A Qualitative Examination of School Administrators Perceived Barriers and Facilitators," 17 Journal of School Violence 284 (2017). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Policing the Boundaries of Whiteness: The Tragedy of Being 'Out of Place' from Emmett Till to Trayvon Martin," 102 Iowa Law Review 1113 (2017). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Marizen R. Ramirez, Corinne Peek-Asa, Joseph E. Cavanaugh & Patrick Ten Eyck, "Evaluation of Iowas Anti-Bullying Law," 3 Injury Epidemiology 15 (2016). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Hon. Solomon Oliver Jr.:Chief Judge, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio," 63 The Federal Lawyer 40 (August 2016). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Obamas State of the Union Should Honor Colleges That Give Prisoners aChance," The New York Times (September 6, 2016). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Trina Jones & Guy-Uriel E. Charles, "Race and Reform in Twenty-First Century America: Foreword," in Symposium Race and Reform in Twenty-First Century America, 79 Law & Contemporary Problems 1 (2016). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Kristen Konrad Tiscione, "Rewrite of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, 477 US 57 (1986)," in Feminist Judgments: Rewritten Opinions of the United States Supreme Court , Kathryn M. Stanchi, Linda L. Berger & Bridget A. Crawford, eds., Cambridge University Press (2016). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Trauma of the Routine: Lessons on Cultural Trauma from the Emmett Till Verdict," 34 Sociological Theory 335 (2016). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Alexander Nourafshan, "From Outsider Status to Insider and Outsider Again: Interest Convergence Theory and Normalization of LGBT Identity," in Symposium After Marriage, 42 Florida State University Law Review 521 (2015). Scholarly Commons | Publisher Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Erwin Chemerinsky & Mario Barnes, "Judging Opportunity Lost: Assessing the Viability of Race-Based Affirmative Action After Fisher v. University of Texas, Austin," 62 UCLA Law Review 272 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Mario Barnes, Erwin Chemerinsky & Anne Richardson Oakes, "Judging Opportunity Lost: Race-based Affirmative Action and Equality Jurisprudence After Fisher v. University of Texas," in Controversies in Equal Protection Cases in America: Race, Gender and Sexual Orientation , Routledge (2015). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Lots of Love for this Loving Analysis," JOTWELL (March 26, 2014). ReviewingI. Bennett Capers, "The Crime of Loving:Loving,Lawrence, and Beyond", inLoving v. Virginia in a Post Racial World: Rethinking Race, Sex, and Marriage (Kevin Noble Maillard & Rose Cuison Villazor eds., 2012) Angela Onwuachi-Willig & William Kidder, "Still Hazy After All These Years: The Data and Theory Behind Mismatch," review of Richard Sander & Stuart Taylor Jr., Mismatch: How Affirmative Action Hurts Students Its Intended to Help, and Why Universities Wont Admit It, Basic Books (2013), 92 Texas Law Review 895 (2014). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Obama Has Become a Code Word forRacists," New York Times (January 21, 2014). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "'I Wish I Were Black' and Other Tales of Privilege," The Chronicle of Higher Education (October 28, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, According to Our Hearts: Rhinelander v. Rhinelander and the Law of the Multiracial Family, Yale University Press (2013). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Definition of Marriage Bends TowardJustice," New York Times (November 20, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Is Interracial Romance Still Scandalous?" HuffPost (May 24, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Anthony Alfieri, "Next-Generation Civil Rights Lawyers: Race and Representation in the Age of Identity Performance," 122 Yale Law Journal 1484 (2013). Review of Kenneth Mack, "Representing the Race: The Creation of the Civil Rights Lawyer" (2012) and Devon Carbado & Mitu Gulati, "Acting White? Rethinking Race in Post-Racial America" (2013).SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "An Officer and a Gentleman," in The New Black: What Has Changed-and What Has Not-with Race in America , Kenneth W. Mack & Guy-Uriel E. Charles, eds., The New Press (2013). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "On Derrick Bell as Pioneer and Teacher: Teaching Us How to Have the Nerve,," 36 Seattle University Law Review xlii (2013). (invited tribute to Professor Derrick Bell)Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Portman Learned That the Political Really Is Personal'," Iowa City Press-Citizen (March 28, 2013). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "A Room with Many Views: A Response to Essays on According to Our Hearts: Rhinelander v. Rhinelander and the Multiracial Family," 16 Iowa Journal of Gender, Race and Justice 793 (2013). Scholarly Commons | SSRN Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Still Learning From the Birmingham Jail," HuffPost (April 16, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Supreme Court Affirmative Action Decision: Dont Be Fooled by Flawed Theories," The Christian Science Monitor (May 28, 2013). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "To All the Colleges That May Never Get a Chance to Reject Me: From the Poor Black Kid With Two Moms," HuffPost (April 17, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Understanding the Content of Our Character," Cedar Rapids Gazette 12A (Jan. 20, 2013). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "What Interracial and Gay Couples Know About Passing," The Atlantic (July 31, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "What Would Be the Story of Alice and Leonard Rhinelander Today?" 46 U.C. Davis Law Review 939 (2013). Based on 2011-2012 Brigitte Bodenheimer Lecture.Publisher | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "What Would Mildred Loving Think About the Use of Images of Multiracial Families for Anti-LGBT Family Messages?" HuffPost (June 13, 2013). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Amber Fricke, "Do Female 'Firsts' Still Matter?: Why They Do for Women of Color," in Symposium Gender and the Legal Profession's Pipeline to Power, 2012 Michigan State Law Review 1529 (2012). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Jacob Willig-Onwuachi, "Finding a Loving Home," in Loving v. Virginia in a Post-Racial World: Rethinking Race, Sex, and Marriage , Rose Cuison Villazor & Kevin Noble Maillard, eds., Cambridge University Press (2012). Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Mario Barnes, "The Obama Effect: Specialized Meanings in Anti-discrimination Law," in Symposium Labor and Employment Law under the Obama Administration: A Time for Hope and Change, 87 Indiana Law Journal 325 (2012). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Silence of the Lambs," in Presumed Incompetent: The Intersections of Race and Class for Women in Academia , Gabriella Gutirrez y Muhs, Yolanda Flores Niemann, Carmen G. Gonzalez & Angela P. Harris, eds., Utah State University Press (2012). Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Amber Fricke, "Class, Classes, and Classic Race Baiting: Whats in a Definition?" 88 Denver Law Review 807 (2011). Invited response to Professor Richard Sander of UCLA Law School.Scholarly Commons | SSRN Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Like Mrs. McCree: A Tribute to Dores McCree," 16 Michigan Journal of Race and Law 143 (2011). HeinOnline Vulnerable Populations and Transformative Law Teaching: A Critical Reader, Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Raquel Aldana, Steven Bender, Olympia Duhart, Michele Benedetto Neitz, Hari Osofsky & Hazel Weiser, eds., Carolina Academic Press (2011). Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Jacob Willig-Onwuachi, "All in the Family," 22 Yale Journal of Law and Feminism 242 (2010). (invited special issue response to Professor Darren Rosenblums A Pregnant Man?)SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Another Hair Piece: Exploring New Strands of Analysis Under Title VII," 98 Georgetown Law Journal 1079 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Complimentary and Complementary Discrimination in Faculty Hiring," 87 Washington University School of Law Review 763 (2010). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Road to Virtual Equality," JOTWELL (October 4, 2010). Review of Miriam A. Cherry,A Taxonomy of Virtual Work,45 Georgia Law Review 951 (2011).Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Teaching Employment Discrimination," 54 St. Louis Law Journal 755 (2010). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Black Divide in Affirmative Action," in OurPromise: Achieving Educational Equality for Americas Children , Daniel Weddle & Maurice Dyson, eds., Carolina Academic Press (2009). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Celebrating Critical Race Theory at 20," in Symposium Critical Race Theory Speaker Series - CRT 20: Honoring Our Past, Charting Our Future, 94 Iowa Law Review 1497 (2009). Scholarly Commons | SSRN Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Osamudia James, "The Declining Significance of Presidential Races?" in Symposium Race and Socioeconomic Class: Examining an Increasingly Complex Tapestry, 72 Law & Contemporary Problems 89 (2009). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Jacob Willig-Onwuachi, "A House Divided: The Invisibility of the Multiracial Family," 44 Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review 231 (2009). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Jacob Willig-Onwuachi, "Now Each Citizen Can Proclaim I Love You, and We Can Live in Iowa," Iowa City Press-Citizen 9A (April 4, 2009). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Presidential Inauguration: Iowa Views (Great Pride, But Also Fear)," Des Moines Register 16A (Jan. 19, 2009). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, Emily Houh & Mary Campbell, "Cracking the Egg: Which Came FirstStigma or Affirmative Action?" in Symposium Taking Initiative on Initiatives: Examining Proposition 209 and Beyond, 96 California Law Review 1299 (2008). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Jacob Willig-Onwuachi, "Iowa Supreme Court Should Again Be a Pioneer," Iowa City Press-Citizen 9A (Dec. 9, 2008). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Story of Hudgins v. Wrights: Multiracialism and the Social Construction of Race," in Race Law Stories , Rachel F. Moran & Devon W. Carbado, eds., Foundation Press (2008). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Thomas, Clarence," in Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court of the United States, David S. Tanenhaus, ed., Macmillan Reference USA, 55 (2008). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Vote Buoys Faith in Power to Beat Racism," Des Moines Register 13A (Nov. 8, 2008). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Admission of Legacy Blacks," 60 Vanderbilt Law Review 1141 (2007). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "A Beautiful Lie: Exploring Rhinelander v. Rhinelander as a Formative Lesson on Race, Identity, Marriage, and Family," 95 California Law Review 2393 (2007). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Girl, Fight!" review of Megan Seely, Fight Like A Girl: How to Be A Fearless Feminist, NYU Press (2007), 22 Berkeley Journal of Gender, Law & Justice 254 (2007). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Theres Just One Hitch, Will Smith: Examining Title VII, Race, Casting, and Discrimination on the Fortieth Anniversary of Loving v. Virginia," in Symposium Intimacy, Race, Marriage, and the Meanings of Equality: Perspectives on the 40th Anniversary of Loving v. Virginia, 2007 Wisconsin Law Review 319 (2007). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Volunteer Discrimination," 40 U.C. Davis Law Review 1895 (2007). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Concealing a Truth When It Doesnt Fit," review of Kenji Yoshino, Covering: The Hidden Assault on Our Civil Rights, (2006), Legal Times (March 27, 2006). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Looking at Race Through 'Survivor'," Philadelphia Inquirer 9 (Oct. 5, 2006). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Representative Government, Representative Court? The Supreme Court as a Representative Body," in Symposium The Future of the Supreme Court: Institutional Reform and Beyond, 90 Minnesota Law Review 1252 (2006). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "This Bridge Called Our Backs," in Symposium The Future of Critical Race Feminism, 39 U.C. Davis Law Review 733 (2006). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Undercover Other," 94 California Law Review 873 (2006). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Mario Barnes, "By Any Other Name?: On Being 'Regarded As' Black, and Why Title VII Should Apply Even If Lakisha and Jamal Are White," 2005 Wisconsin Law Review 1283 (2005). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Clarence Thomas as Chief Justice?" Chicago Tribune 9 (Jan. 2, 2005). Angela Onwuachi-Willig & Kevin R. Johnson, "Cry Me A River: The Limits of 'A Systemic Analysis of Affirmative Action in American Law Schools'," 7 Berkeley Journal of African-American Law & Policy 1 (2005). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "For Whom Does the Bell Toll: The Bell Tolls for Brown?" review of Derrick Bell, Silent Covenants: Brown v. Board of Education and the Unfulfilled Hopes for Racial Reform, Oxford University Press (2005), 103 Michigan Law Review 1507 (2005). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Just Another Brother on the SCT?: What Justice Clarence Thomas Teaches Us About the Influence of Racial Identity," 90 Iowa Law Review 931 (2005). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Living Life in a Paradox," Chicago Tribune 9 (Sept. 18, 2005). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Return of the Ring: Welfare Reforms Marriage Cure as the Revival of Post-Bellum Control," 93 California Law Review 1647 (2005). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Using the Masters 'Tool' to Dismantle His House: Why Justice Clarence Thomas Makes the Case for Affirmative Action," 47 Arizona Law Review 113 (2005). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Other View: Bird Creates Buzz About Race in the NBA," The Sacramento Bee B7 (July 6, 2004). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "While Were on the Subject, Larry Bird, of Race," Houston Chronicle 41A (June 17, 2004). Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "The Verdict on Roberts v. Texaco," review of Bari-Ellen Roberts, Roberts v. Texaco: A True Story of Race and Corporate America, Avon Books (1998), (1999). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "When Different Means the Same: Applying a Different Standard of Proof to White Plaintiffs Under the McDonnell Douglas Prima Facie Case Test," 50 Case Western Reserve Law Review 53 (1999). Scholarly Commons Angela Onwuachi-Willig, "Note, Moving Ground, Breaking Traditions: Tashas Chronicle," 3 Michigan Journal of Race and Law 255 (1997). Scholarly Commons In the MediaDecember 10, 2020Too Often Overlooked: Black Women Are Nearly Absent From the Federal BenchIts Time to Change ThatAngela Onwuachi-Willig is featured. read moreNovember 17, 2020Should Schools or Employers Be Allowed to Tell People How They Should Wear Their Hair?Angela Onwuachi-Willig is quoted. read moreNovember 14, 2020Black Women Law Deans to be Honored for Antiracism EffortsAngela Onwuachi-Willig is interviewed. read moreNovember 13, 2020UPS to Allow Natural Black Hairstyles and Facial HairAngela Onwuachi-Willig is quoted. read moreNovember 12, 2020I cant believe it, I cant believe it. Voices of BU Women Rejoicing with Kamala HarrisAngela Onwuachi-Willig, Dominique McClean (21), Jasmine Gonzales Rose, Sarah Sherman Stokes, Briana Cardwell (20), Jade Brown, and Orn... read moreNovember 4, 2020BU Faculty, Employers Grant Leniency to Students Who Take Election Day OffAngela Onwuachi-Willig is quoted. read moreSeptember 25, 2020What is Critical Race Theory, President Trumps Latest Political Target?Angela Onwuachi-Willig is quoted. read moreSeptember 21, 2020Ruth Bader Ginsburg Fought Tirelessly for What She Believed Was RightA POV by Dean Onwuachi-Willig. read moreSeptember 11, 2020Seeking Racial Justice, A 2-Day Scholar Strike Disrupts Mass. UniversitiesAngela Onwuachi-Willig is quoted. read moreAugust 25, 2020Justice Department is Increasing Attacks on Affirmative Action in College AdmissionsDean Angela Onwuachi-Willig is quoted. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
