Law School Room Reservations (Faculty & Staff) | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Law School Room Reservations Faculty & StaffRoom Reservations Room Reservation Procedures LAW Student organizations and groups: please visit the Student Organization Leadership page to review the interactive guide to holding an event at BU Law. To reserve a classroom: Make the reservation with Law Registrars Office (5th floor). Food is only allowed in the 2nd floor classrooms and Room 410. To reserve Barristers Hall, McCausland Commons (214A), and The Charles River Room: Contact the Reservations Manager. Ask if there are other events that will conflict with your event or draw the same audience. Then follow all steps below. Obtain and fill out a Room Reservation Form. Complete all form information, including checklist, and return to the Reservations Manager. Obtain and fill out a room set-up diagram (if needed): Barristers Hall Large Lecture Small Lecture Luncheon/Dinner Cocktail Reception Unfurnished McCausland Commons (214A) Lecture Style Meeting Set-Up Charles River Room Charles River Room Set-Up Provide Buildings & Grounds FSR (Facilities Service Request) number to the Reservations Manager if applicable (see room reservation forms checklist) Return completed reservation form, diagram, and B&G FSR to the Reservations Manager at least two weeks before your event. Your reservation will not be finalized until the reservation form and all other paperwork are received by the Reservations Manager. When a reservation is approved, a confirmation will be sent. Room Reservation Policies Any group interested in reserving space in the School of Law needs to work with the Reservations Manager (email:lawres@bu.edu) to make reservations for Barristers Hall, 214A, and The Charles River Room. The Law Auditorium is now booked by the University Registrars Office. Every group hosting an event in the Law School is required to have a B&G FSR (Facilities Service Request) in order to provide any required set-up or clean-up. All rooms are available for reservation by School of Law departments first. We reserve the right to change a reservation due to the needs of the School of Law. Food is only allowed in Barristers Hall, 214A, Classroom 410, 203, and 204. A Room Reservation form must be completed and returned to the Reservations Manager two weeks prior to the requested date. If you would like one sent to you, please email the Reservations Manager at lawres@bu.edu. Reservations are on a first-come, first-served basis. However, it will remain the case that all rooms are available for reservation by School of Law departments first, and we reserve the right to change a reservation due to the needs of the School of Law. Please note: no space will be reserved until all paperwork has been received and approved. Cancellations should be directed to the Reservations Manager via email at lawres@bu.edu, as soon as possible. School of Law Faculty & Staff Directory Library Services Teaching Resources Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Technology Services Room Reservations Logos & Brand Standards Event Planning Guide BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
