Stanley Z. Fisher | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Stanley Z. Fisher Professor of Law Emeritus B.A., Oberlin College J.D., Yale University Contact Office Room 980F Email szf@bu.edu Phone 617-353-3124 Full CV Biography After starting out teaching law in Ethiopia, where his book Ethiopian Criminal Procedure still serves as major teaching text, Stanley Fisher came to Boston University in 1968. On sabbatical leaves, he practiced in the Boston area as a juvenile defender, a prosecutor and a public defender. These experiences provided the foundation for his teaching and research interests: prosecutorial ethics and miscarriages of justice. He has been particularly concerned with the effect of faulty eyewitness identification procedures and of police and prosecution suppression of exculpatory evidence on wrongful convictions. The DNA exonerations of more than 300 prisoners and the similar rash of exonerations of innocent men and women on Americas death rows have forced us to question our faith in the reliability of criminal convictions in our system, he says. In 2000, Professor Fisher helped found the New England Innocence Project, on whose board he serves as trustee. NEIP uses law students and criminal defense lawyers to investigate and litigate claims of innocence by prisoners who might be exonerated by DNA testing. BU Law students have worked on NEIP cases as summer interns or under Professor Fishers supervision when enrolled in his Wrongful Convictions Clinic. Widely published in the field of criminal procedure, Professor Fisher also has studied the criminal justice system in Great Britain. In April, 2002, the Illinois Governors Commission on Capital Punishment used his British research in framing recommendations for fundamental reform of police and prosecutorial conduct of investigations. At BU Law, Professor Fisher, who also has co-edited Massachusetts Criminal Practice, has taught courses in criminal procedure, criminal law and wrongful convictions. I have been committed to teaching in the Criminal Clinic, as well, because I think its important that students learn through experience, he says. In 2003, the Massachusetts public defender agency gave Professor Fisher the Thurgood Marshall Award for his service as a champion of zealous defense of the poor. In 2003-04, he taught law at the University of Asmara, in Eritrea. Publications Stanley Fisher, "50 Years of Legal Education in Ethiopia: A Memoir," 26 Journal of Ethiopian Law 191 (2015). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stanley Fisher, "Eyewitness Identification Reform in Massachusetts," 91 Massachusetts Law Review 52 (2008). SSRN | Publisher Stanley Fisher & Ian K. McKenzie, "A Miscarriage of Justice in Massachusetts: Eyewitness Identification Procedures, Unrecorded Admissions, and a Comparison with English Law," 13 Boston University Public Interest Law Journal 1 (2003). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stanley Fisher, "Convictions of Innocent Persons in Massachusetts: An Overview," 12 Boston University Public Interest Law Journal 1 (2002). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Stanley Fisher, "The Prosecutor's Ethical Duty to Seek Exculpatory Evidence in Police Hands: Lessons from England," in Symposium Ethics in Criminal Advocacy, 68 Fordham Law Review 1379 (2000). Westlaw | SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Massachusetts Criminal Practice, 2d ed., Stanley Fisher, Eric D. Blumenson & Daniel Kanstroom, eds., Lexis Law Publishing (1998). Stanley Fisher, "Just the Facts, Ma'am: Lying and the Omission of Exculpatory Evidence in Police Reports," 28 New England Law Review 1 (1993). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Stanley Fisher, "Zealousness and 'Overzealousness': Making Sense of the Prosecutor's Duty to Seek Justice," 22 The Prosecutor 9 (1989). Stanley Fisher, "In Search of the Virtuous Prosecutor: A Conceptual Framework," 15 American Journal of Criminal Law 197 (1988). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stanley Fisher, "Ethics and Client Relations," in Representing Children in Juvenile Delinquency Charges 23, MCLE (1986). Stanley Fisher, "Parents' Rights and Juvenile Court Jurisdiction: A Review of Before the Best Interests of the Child," review of Joseph Goldstein, Before the Best Interests of the Child, Free Press (1980), 1981 American Bar Foundation Research Journal 835 (1981). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stanley Fisher & IJA-ABA Joint Commission on Juvenile Justice Standards, Standards Relating to Pre-Trial Court Proceedings, Ballinger (1980). Stanley Fisher, "Families with Service Needs -- The Newest Euphemism?" 18 Journal of Family Law 1 (1979). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Stanley Fisher, "The Juvenile Justice System -- An Overview," in Juvenile Advocacy 1, 145, MCLE (1979). Stanley Fisher, "The Right to Treatment of Adolescents in Institutions," in The Rights of Adolescents in the Mental Health System 233, John Wilson, ed., Lexington Books (1978). Stanley Fisher, "The Disposition Process Under the Juvenile Justice Standards Project," 57 Boston University Law Review 732 (1977). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Stanley Fisher, "The Juvenile Justice System -- An Overview," in Juvenile Law Practice , MCLE (1977). Stanley Fisher, "The Standards' Recommendations on Dispositions: A Panel Discussion," 57 Boston University Law Review 754 (1977). Scholarly Commons Stanley Fisher, "The Victim's Role in Criminal Prosecutions in Ethiopia," in Victimology: A New Focus 73, Israel Drapkin & Emilio Viano, eds., Lexington Books (1975). Paper presented to the First International Symposium on Victimology, Jerusalem, 1973. Stanley Fisher, "Criminal Liability for Negligent Conduct in the United States," in Law in the United States of America in Social and Technological Revolution 569, John N. Hazard & Wenceslas Wagner, eds., Emile Bruylant (1974). Stanley Fisher, review of Yash P. Ghai & J. Patrick McAuslan, Public Law and Political Change in Kenya: A Study Framework of Government from Colonial Times to the Present, Oxford University Press (1970), 5 The International Journal of African Historical Studies 132 (1972). Stanley Fisher, "Traditional Criminal Procedure in Ethiopia," 19 American Journal of Comparative Law 709 (1971). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Stanley Fisher, "Criminal Procedure for Juvenile Offenders in Ethiopia," 7 Journal of Ethiopian Law 115 (1970). Stanley Fisher, Ethiopian Criminal Procedure: A Sourcebook, Oxford University Press (1969). Stanley Fisher & Fassil Abebe, "Language and Law in Ethiopia," 5 Journal of Ethiopian Law 553 (1968). Stanley Fisher, "Law Development and Reform in Ethiopia," Balance and the Sword 25 (1968). Stanley Fisher, "Involuntary Confessions and Article 35, Criminal Procedure Code," 3 Journal of Ethiopian Law 330 (1966). Stanley Fisher, review of Steven Lowenstein, Materials for the Study of Penal Law in Ethiopia, Oxford University Press (1965) and Philippe Graven, An Introduction to Ethiopian Penal Law, Oxford University Press (1965), 1966 Liberian Law Journal 71 (1966). Stanley Fisher, review of H. L. A. Hart, The Morality of the Criminal Law, Oxford University Press (1965), 3 Journal of Ethiopian Law 645 (1966). Stanley Fisher, "Some Aspects of Ethiopian Arrest Law: The Eclectic Approach to Codification," 3 Journal of Ethiopian Law 463 (1966). In the MediaJuly 16, 2015State Charges Possible for Tsarnaev for Crimes in Middlesex CountyStanley Fisher quoted in The Daily Free Press. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
