Andrew Sellars | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Andrew Sellars Director, Technology Law Clinic Clinical Instructor BS, Northeastern University JD, The George Washington University School of Law Areas of Interest Intellectual Property, Law & Technology, Media & First Amendment Law, Privacy Contact Office 1204D Email sellars@bu.edu Phone 617-358-7377 SSRN Author Page Biography Andrew Sellars is the founding director of the Technology Law Clinic, a legal service for undergraduate and graduate students at MIT and BU. In the clinic, BU Law students counsel clients on laws and regulations that affect their research, advocacy, and innovation, including intellectual property, media law, data privacy, and cybersecurity law. Sellars has overseen the legal representation of hundreds of student clients through his work in the clinic, representing computer security researchers, public interest advocates on technology and society issues, innovative startups, and student journalists. His scholarship focuses on application of intellectual property and computer access laws to technology research and journalism. Before joining BU, Sellars was the Corydon B. Dunham First Amendment Fellow at Harvard Universitys Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society. There, he worked in Harvard Law Schools Cyberlaw Clinic and the Digital Media Law Project. Sellars received his JD with high honors from the George Washington University Law School, where he was awarded the Jan Jancin Award from the American Intellectual Property Law Association, given to the top intellectual property law student in the country. He is also a faculty affiliate at BUs Rafik B. Hariri Institute for Computing and Computational Science & Engineering and a member of the Boston Bar Association. Publications Andrew Sellars, "Twenty Years of Web Scraping and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act," in Symposium Governing the Internet: Public Access, Private Regulation, 24 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 372 (2018). SSRN | Scholarly Commons In the MediaOctober 30, 2020Facebooks Threat to the NYU Ad Observatory Is an Attack on Ethical ResearchA piece by Andy Sellars. read moreJuly 16, 2020BU-MIT Law Clinics Help Students Bring Innovations into the WorldBU Law clinics featured. read moreFebruary 14, 2020Vote on Your Phone? BU School of Law Clinic Helps Expose Security Flaws in Voter AppAndy Sellars interviewed in BU Today. read moreJanuary 27, 2020Clearviews Face Surveillance Shows Why We Need a Strong Federal Consumer Privacy LawAndrew Sellars quoted in Electronic Frontier Foundation. read moreAugust 14, 2018Plastic Guns, Nuclear Bombs, and the Endless Debate Over Free Speech and Public SafetyAndrew Sellars quoted in "Plastic Guns, Nuclear Bombs, and the Endless Debate Over Free Speech and Public Safety,"WGBH. read moreAugust 2, 2018The Very Good Reason Why the 3D-Printed Gun Plans Need to Be AvailableAndrew Sellars authored "The Very Good Reason Why the 3D-Printed Gun Plans Need to Be Available"Slate. read moreSeptember 19, 2017Department of Justice Turns a Blind Eye to Online Stalking and AbuseAndrew Sellars quoted in ThinkProgress. read moreAugust 9, 2017Technology & Cyberlaw Clinic: a crucial resourceBU Law's Technology & Cyberlaw Clinic profiled, and clinical director Andrew Sellars mentioned, in "Technology & Cyberlaw Clinic: a cruc... read moreMay 18, 2017MIT Student Sues CIA for Information about its Social Media JokesAndrew Sellars featured in The Boston Globe. read moreMay 16, 2017Why is the CIA Telling Jokes on Twitter? MIT Researcher Sues Intelligence Agency for Social Media RecordsAndrew Sellars quoted by MassLive. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
