Michael S. Baram | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Michael S. Baram Professor of Law Emeritus B.S., Tufts University LL.B., Columbia University Contact Office Room 866 Email mbaram@bu.edu Phone 617-353-5294 Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Michael Baram is Professor of Law Emeritus at Boston University School of Law where he had served as Professor of Law and Director of the Center for Law & Technology, and held faculty appointments in the BU School of Public Health (Health Law Division) and BU Bioinformatics Department. He is also a Legal Volunteer at the Conservation Law Foundation. He was previously a partner in the Boston environmental law firm of Bracken and Baram for 30 years, and a Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering and Assistant Dean of the Graduate School at MIT. His areas of specialization are Environmental Law, Occupational Health Law, Biotechnology Law and Ethics, Corporate Risk Management, Products Liability, Regulation of Hazardous Technologies, and Safety Management Systems. He has provided consulting and legal services to numerous public and private organizations including: the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Energy, and Federal Emergency Management Agency; the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the OECD, the European Union, the Geneva Association, the World Resources Institute, the American Petroleum Institute, the Chemical Manufacturers Association, the Administrative Conference of the U.S., the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, the states of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and California, Tufts University, Clark University, University of Stavanger/Norwegian Research Council, and various corporations. He has also been Visiting Professor at the Technical University of Berlin, a lecturer at Carnegie-Mellon University and Clark University, and is a Fellow of the Society for Risk Analysis. He has served on numerous expert committees and boards including: National Academy of Sciences Committees (on Ionizing Radiation (BEIR II), Radioactive Waste Management, EPA Decision-making, and Wastewater and Sludge Management); the EPA Toxic Substances Advisory Committee; the OSHA Construction Safety and Health Advisory Committee; Massachusetts Advisory Committees (on Low Level Rad Waste, Right to Know Law, and Water Supply); the American Bar Association Environmental Law Committee (Chairman); the Chemical Education Foundation Board of Trustees; U.S. Delegation to the OECD on Chemical Industry Safety Hazards; Northeast Business Environmental Network Board of Directors; Wharton Risk Management Center Advisory Board; New Technologies and Work Core Group; Berkeley Deepwater Horizon Study Group; and other committees at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, U.S. Department of Energy, MIT (Nuclear Engineering Department), Boston University (Center for Energy and Environmental Studies), Harvard (Law & Technology Society); and journal editorial boards of the American Society of Law and Medicine, the National Association of Environmental Professionals, the Society for Risk Analysis, BU and Harvard Law Schools (journals of law & technology); and the Journal of BioLaw and Business. His publications include eight books: Governing Risk in GM Agriculture (2010), Safety Management (1998), Managing Chemical Risks (1992), Transnational Corporations and Industrial Hazards Disclosure (1991), Corporate Disclosure of Environmental Risks: U.S. and E.C. Law (1990), Alternatives to Regulation for Managing Risks to Health, Safety, Environment (1982), Environmental Law and the Siting of Facilities (1976), and Marine Mining: Legal, Technical and Environmental Considerations (1978). Several reports have also been published by the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, the Administrative Conference of the U.S., the European Union, and the National Academy of Sciences. He has authored over 110 articles and chapters in legal, professional and academic journals, books and other media (e.g. in Science, The New York Times, Environmental Health Perspectives, Safety Science Journal). Publications Michael Baram, "A New Social Contract for Governing Industrial Risk in the Community," 56 Jurimetrics Journal 223 (2016). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Michael Baram, "Liability and Insurance and their Influence on Safety Management of Industrial Operations and Products," 17 Journal of Risk Research (2014). Publisher Michael Baram, Risk Governance of Offshore Oil and Gas Operations, Preben H. Lindoe & Ortwin Renn, eds., Cambridge University Press (2013). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Michael Baram, Preben H. Lindoe & Geir Sverre Braut, "Risk Regulation and Proceduralization: An Assessment of Norwegian and US Risk Regulation in Offshore Oil and Gas Industry," in Trapping Safety into Rules: How Desirable or Avoidable is Proceduralization? 69, C. Bieder & Mathilde Bourrier, eds., Ashgate (2013). Michael Baram, Preben H. Lindoe & J. Paterson, "Robust Offshore Risk Regulation - An Assessment of US, UK and Norwegian Approaches," in Innovative Governance Models for Emerging Technologies 235, Gary E. Marchant, Kenneth W. Abbott & Braden Allenby, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing (2013). Also presented at a conference, ESREL2012, 25-29 June, Helsinki. Michael Baram, Preben H. Lindoe & Geir Sverre Braut, "Empowered Agents or Empowered Agencies: Assessing the Risk Regulatory Regimes in the Norwegian and US Offshore Oil and Gas Industry," in ESREL Conference Proceedings: Advances in Safety, Reliability and Risk Management , Christophe Berenguer et al., eds., Taylor & Francis (2012). Michael Baram & K. Florian Buchler, "Institutional Governance of Offshore Oil and Gas Development," in Final Report on the Investigation of the Macondo Well Blowout, , Deepwater Horizon Study Group, University of California-Berkeley (2011). Governing Risk in GM Agriculture, Michael Baram & Mathilde Bourrier, eds., Cambridge University Press (2010). Michael Baram, "Self Regulation and Safety Management," www.workingonsafety.net (2010). Presentation at Working on Safety 2010 Conference, Roros, Norway (Sept. 7-10, 2010).Publisher Michael Baram, "Biotechnological Research on the Most Dangerous Pathogens: Challenges for Risk Governance and Safety Management," 47 Safety Science 890 (2009). Michael Baram, "Globalization and Workplace Hazards in Developing Nations," 47 Safety Science 756 (2009). Michael Baram, "Governing Technological Risks," in The Ethics of Technological Risk 271, L. Asveld & S. Roesser, eds., Earthscan Publications (2008). Michael Baram, Reality Check: The Nature and Performance of Voluntary Environmental Programs in the United States, Europe, and Japan, R. Morganstern & W. Pizer, eds., RFF Press (2007), 10 Environmental Practice Journal 78 (2008). Michael Baram, "Alternatives to Prescriptive Regulation of Workplace Health and Safety," 11:2 Safety Science Monitor (2007). Michael Baram, "Liability and Its Influence on Designing for Product and Process Safety," in Symposium Safety by Design - Based on a Workshop of the New Technology and Work Network, 45 Safety Science 11 (2007). Michael Baram & Markus Schoebel, "Safety Culture and Behavioral Change at the Workplace," 45 Safety Science Journal 631 (2007). Safety Culture and Behavioral Change at the Workplace: A Selection of Papers from the 23rd NeTWork Workshop, 2004, Michael Baram & Markus Schoebel, eds., Safety Science (2007). Published as volume 45 Issue 6 Safety Science. Michael Baram, "Alternatives to Prescriptive Regulation of Workplace Health and Safety," in Working on Safety 2006 Conference Proceedings , International Labor Organization (2006). Michael Baram, Ben Ale & Barry Kirwan, "Risk Management," 10 (Special Issue) Safety Science Monitor 2.3 (2006). Michael Baram, "Foreword," in Research Handbook on Corporate Legal Responsibility , Stephen Tulley, ed., Edward Elgar Publishing (2005). Michael Baram, "Managing the Risks of Clinical Testing," in How to Manage Experience Sharing: From Organisational Surprises to Organisational Knowledge 293, J. H. Erik Andriessen & Babette Fahlbruch, eds., Elsevier (2004). Michael Baram, "Safety Culture and the Nuclear Decommissioning Process," in Emerging Demands for the Safety of Nuclear Power Operations: Challenge and Response 31, Naosuke Itoigawa, Bernhard Wilpert & Babette Fahlbruch, eds., CRC Press (2004). Michael Baram, "Biotechnology and Social Control," in Changing Regulation: Controlling Risks in Society 217, Barry Kirwan, Andrew Richard Hale & A. Hopkins, eds., Pergamon (2002). Michael Baram, "Improving Corporate Management of Risks to Health, Safety and Environment," in System Safety: Challenges and Pitfalls of Intervention 85, Babette Fahlbruch, ed., Pergamon (2002). Michael Baram, Nuclear Reactor Decommissioning: Case Study, Conservation Law Foundation, (2002). [Private report] Michael Baram, "Genetic Testing for Susceptibility to Disease from Exposure to Toxic Chemicals: Implications for Public and Worker Health Policies," in Symposium Legal Liabilities at the Frontier of Genetic Testing, Part II, 41 Jurimetrics Journal 165 (2001). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "The Hormesis Challenge for Environmental Health Regulators," 9 BELLE 13 (2001). Reprinted in 20 Human and Experimental Toxicology Journal 435 (2001). Michael Baram, "Legal Borders Necessary for a Safe Genetic Technology," in Proceedings of World Congress on Safety of Modern Technical Systems , TUV Saarland Foundation (2001). Michael Baram, "Making Clinical Trials Safer for Human Subjects," 27 American Journal of Law and Medicine 253 (2001). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "An Alewife Primer: Can This Urban Wilderness Be Saved?" Report 2000 (2000). [Belmont Land Trust] Michael Baram, "Introduction to the Intellectual Property Panel: Patent Rights & Licensing," in Symposium Advances in Biomaterials and Devices, and Their Financing, 6 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 3 (2000). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Medical Error and Responsibility in Managed Healthcare," in Safety in Medicine 231, Charles Vincent & Bas de Mol, eds., Pergamon (2000). Michael Baram, "Regulatory and Liability Considerations," in Symposium Biotech Materials and Medical Devices in the New Millennium, 6 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 5 (2000). [Introduction]HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram & Ronald A. Cass, "Welcome and Introductory Remarks," in Symposium Advances in Biomaterials and Devices, and Their Financing, 6 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 2 (2000). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Electromagnetic Fields: Health Risks and Environmental Justice," 19 Toxics Law Reporter 623 (1998). Michael Baram, "Process Safety Management and the Implications of Organizational Change," in Safety Management: The Challenge of Change 191, Pergamon, Michael Baram & Andrew Richard Hale, eds., Pergamon (1998). Safety Management: The Challenge of Change, Michael Baram & Andrew Richard Hale, eds., Pergamon (1998). Michael Baram & David Dana, "EMF and Liability Claims Under California Law," in Risk Perception, Risk Communication and Its Application to EMF Exposure , R. Mathes et al., eds., International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (1997). Michael Baram, "The Future of Product Stewardship," in Conference Proceedings: Environmental Management Information Systems , I B C Inc. (1997). Michael Baram et al., "Introduction and Remarks," in Symposium Internet Entrepreneurs, New Traffic Patterns, and Policy Issues, 3 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 1 (1997). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, Calestous Juma, Sheldon Krimsky & Rufus C. King, "Introduction and Remarks," in Symposium Transgenic Agriculture: Biosafety and International Trade, 4 Boston University Journal of Science and Technology Law 4 (1997). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "The Laws of Genetics," 105 Environmental Health Perspectives 488 (1997). Michael Baram, "Shame, Blame and Liability: Why Safety Management Suffers Organizational Learning Disabilities," in After the Event: From Accident to Organizational Learning 161, Andrew Richard Hale & Bernhard Wilpert, eds., Pergamon (1997). Michael Baram, William G. Boggess & Thomas Long, "Economic, Legal and Institutional Issues," in Use of Reclaimed Water and Sludge in Food Crop Production 151, National Academy Press (1996). Michael Baram & J. A. Lincoln, Environmental Management Systems: Best Management Practices, Northeast Business Environmental Network, (1996). Michael Baram, "Generic Strategies for Protecting Worker Health and Safety: OSHA's General Duty Clause and Hazard Communication Standard," in Occupational Medicine: Law and the Workplace 69, Jack Snyder & J. Klees, eds., Hanley & Belfus, Inc. (1996). Michael Baram, "LMO's: Treasure Chest or Pandora's Box," 104 Environmental Health Perspectives 704 (1996). Michael Baram, "Risky Business," 104 Environmental Health Perspectives 1040 (1996). Michael Baram, "Multinational Corporations, Private Codes, and Technology Transfer for Sustainable Development," 24 Environmental Law Journal 33 (1994). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "The New Environment for Protecting Corporate Information," 25 Environment Reporter 545 (1994). Michael Baram & Patricia Dillon, "Corporate Management of Chemical Accident Risks," in Environmental Strategies for Industry: International Perspectives on Research Needs and Policy Implications 227, K. Fischer & J. Schot, eds., Island Press (1993). Michael Baram, "Corporate Risk Communication: New Challenges for Makers and Users of Toxic Chemicals," 3 Pollution Prevention Review 2 (1993). Michael Baram & Patricia Dillon, "Forces Shaping the Development and Use of Product Stewardship in the Private Sector," in Environmental Strategies for Industry: International Perspectives on Research Needs and Policy Implications 329, K. Fischer & J. Schot, eds., Island Press (1993). Michael Baram, Susan Proctor, Diderico Van Eyl & Robert Andalman, "Human Gene Therapy: Technological Temptations and Social Control," 7 The Genetic Resource 2 (1993). Michael Baram, "Industrial Technology, Chemical Accidents and Social Control," in Reliability and Safety in Hazardous Work Systems 223, Bernhard Wilpert, ed., L. Erlbaum Ltd. (1993). Michael Baram, Patricia Dillon & Betsy Ruffle, Managing Chemical Risks: Corporate Response To SARA Title III, CRC Press (1992). Previously published as EPA Report (1990). Michael Baram, Multinational Corporations and Sustainable Development: Will Private Codes of Conduct Make a Difference?, World Resources Institute, (1992). Michael Baram et al., Expert Judgment on Inadvertent Intrusion into the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, U.S. Dept. of Energy and Sandia Labs, Report SAND 90-3063, UC-721 (1991). Michael Baram, Mary I. Woodell, Steven B. Young & Arthur D. Little, Implementing Product Stewardship, Arthur D. Little report for Chemical Manufacturers Association, (1991). Michael Baram & S. Stricoff, Non-Regulatory Strategies for Preventing, Detecting and Correcting Accidental Releases of Hazardous Air Pollutants, Arthur D. Little report for EPA, (1991). Michael Baram, Transnational Corporations and Industrial Hazards Disclosure, United Nations Centre for Transnational Corporations, Report Environment Series No. 1 (1991). Michael Baram & Daniel Partan, Corporate Disclosure of Environmental Risks: U.S. and E.C. Law, Butterworths (1990). Michael Baram & Howard C. Kunreuther, "A Legal Perspective on an Integrated Hazardous Waste Management Strategy," in Integrating Insurance and Risk Management for Hazardous Wastes 303, Howard C. Kunreuther & M.V. Rajeev Gowda, eds., Kluwer Academic Publishers (1990). Michael Baram, "Policy Initiatives for Improving Management of Chemical Accident Risks," 3 Haz MatWorld (1990). Michael Baram, Risk Communication as a Regulatory Alternative for Protecting Health, Safety, Environment, Administrative Conference of the U.S., (1990). Michael Baram & Gary E. Marchant, "Use of Risk Assessment Evidence to Prove Increased Risk and Alternative Causation in Toxic Tort Litigation," 41 Federation of Insurance and Corporate Counsel Law Quarterly 95 (1990). Michael Baram, "Corporate Risk Management and Risk Communication in the European Community and the United States," 2 Harvard Journal of International Law and Technology 85 (1989). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Hospital Management of Medical Wastes: Legal Framework and Policy Issues," in Perspectives on Medical Waste: A Report of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, State University of New York vi.1, Thomas R. Stewart, ed., The Institute (1989). Michael Baram, "Risk Communication Law and Its Implications," in Communicating with the Public About Major Accident Hazards , Harry J. Otway & H.B.F. Gow, eds., European Community (1989). [Conference Proceedings] Michael Baram et al., "Risk Communication: Moving from Theory to Law to Practice," in Effective Risk Communication 37, Plenum (1989). Michael Baram, Corporate Risk Management: Industrial Responsibility for Risk Communication in the European Community and the United States, EUR, Report 11555 EN (1988). Michael Baram, "Insurability of Hazardous Materials Activities," 3 Statistical Science 328 (1988). Michael Baram, review of Donald W. Stever, Law of Chemical Regulation and Hazardous Waste, Clark Boardman (1986), 9:4 Environmental Professional (1988). Michael Baram, "Risk Communication Law and Implementation Issues in the United States and European Community," 6 Boston University International Law Journal 21 (1988). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Chemical Industry Hazards: Liability, Insurance and the Role of Risk Analysis," in Insuring and Managing Hazardous Risks 415, Howard C. Kunreuther, ed., Springer-Verlag (1987). Abbreviated version of paper published in Geneva Association Conference Proceedings (1986). Michael Baram, P. Ricci & A. Cox, "De Minimis Considerations in Health Risk Assessment," 15 Journal of Hazardous Materials 77 (1987). Michael Baram, "Responsible Use of Expert Systems in Medicine," in Policy Issues in Information and Communication Technologies in Medical Applications 175, U.S. FDA (1987). [IEEE No. UH0181-8] Michael Baram, "Risk and the Law," National Underwriter (1987). [Monthly columns] Michael Baram, "Use of Comparative Risk Methods in Regulatory and Judicial Decision-Making," 13 Columbia Journal of Environmental Law 1 (1987). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram & J. Raymond Miyares, "Alternatives to Government Regulation for the Management of Technological Hazards," in Risk Evaluation and Management 337, V. Covello, J. Menkes & J. Mumpower, eds., Plenum Press (1986). Michael Baram, "Chemical Industry Accidents, Liability and Community Right to Know," 76:5 American Journal of Public Health 5 (1986). Michael Baram, Chemical Industry Hazards, Risk Communication and Community Right to Know, four reports for the EPA, (1986). Michael Baram, "Chemical Industry Hazards: Liability, Insurance and the Role of Risk Analysis," in Conference Proceedings , Geneva Association (1986). Michael Baram & Neal Smith, "Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regulation of Radiation Hazards in the Workplace," 13 Ecology Law Quarterly 879 (1986). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, Regulatory Controls on Research Activities, report for U.S. Congress Office of Technology Assessment, (1986). Also included in The Regulatory Framework for Scientific Research, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram, "Risk Communication and the Law," 8 Environmental Professional 165 (1986). Michael Baram, "Screening and Monitoring Data as Evidence in Legal Proceedings," 28 Journal of Occupational Medicine 946 (1986). Michael Baram, "Chemical Industry Accident Hazards and the Emerging Legal Framework for Risk Communication and Community Right to Know," Proceedings of Air Pollution Control Administration (1985). Michael Baram, "Corporate Management of Genetic and Other Health Risks," in Genetics and the Law 475, A. Milunsky & George J. Annas, eds., Plenum Press (1985). Michael Baram, Foreign Law, Office of Technology Assessment report for the U.S. Congress, (1985). Also incorporated in Reproductive Hazards in the Workplace, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram, "Implementation and Evaluation of Regulations," in Regulating Industrial Risks: Science, Hazards and Public Protection , Harry J. Otway, ed., Butterworths Inc. (1985). Michael Baram et al., "Law, Risk Management, and the Influence of the Psychological and Decision Sciences," in Environmental Impact Assessment, Technology Assessment, and Risk Analysis 1041, Springer-Verlag (1985). Michael Baram, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regulation, Office of Technology Assessment report for the U.S. Congress, (1985). Incorporated in Reproductive Hazards in the Workplace, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram, Reproductive Hazards in the Workplace and Common Law, Office of Technology Assessment report for the U.S. Congress, (1985). Incorporated in Reproductive Hazards in the Workplace, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram, "Role of Consent in Managing Airborne Health Risks to Workers," in To Breathe Freely 186, M. Gibson, ed., Rowman and Allanhold, Inc. (1985). Michael Baram, Workers Compensation Law, Office of Technology Assessment report for the U.S. Congress, (1985). Incorporated in Reproductive Hazards in the Workplace, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram, "Charting the Future Course for Corporate Management of Health Risks," 74:10 American Journal of Public Health 10 (1984). Michael Baram & Dr. Joseph Fiksel, De Minimis Risk in Regulatory Decision-Making, Arthur D. Little report for the U.S. National Science Foundation, (1984). Michael Baram et al., Guide to Product Health and Safety and the Right to Know, American Industrial Hygiene Association (1984). Michael Baram, "The Right to Know and Duty to Disclose Hazard Information," 74 American Journal of Public Health (1984). Michael Baram, Groundwater: Legal and Institutional Analysis, Massachusetts Senate, Report on Bill 1826 (1983). Michael Baram, New Policy Options for Managing Hazardous Wastes, Office of Technology Assessment report for the U.S. Congress, (1983). Incorporated in Technologies and Management Strategies for Hazardous Waste Control, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram & Kevin McAllister, Alternatives to Regulation: Managing Risks to Health, Safety and the Environment, Lexington Books (1982). Michael Baram, Flood Risk Management: Legal Issues, report for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, (1982). Michael Baram, "Managing Flood Risk: Technical Uncertainty in the National Flood Insurance Program," 7 Columbia Journal of Environmental Law 129 (1982). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, Ten Principles for Managing LLRW in Massachusetts, report to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, Commission on Low Level Radioactive Waste Management, (1982). Michael Baram, Alternatives to Regulation for the Management of Risks to Health, Safety and Environment, report for The Ford Foundation, (1981). Michael Baram, "In Order to Have Water," N.Y. Times (Mar. 6, 1981). Michael Baram & J. Raymond Miyares, "In Order to Have Water: Legal, Economic and Institutional Barriers to Water Reuse in Northern New England," 17 New England Law Review 741 (1981). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, The Legal Framework for Managing Carcinogenic Risk, Office of Technology Assessment report for the U.S. Congress, (1981). Incorporated in Assessment of Technologies for Determining Cancer Risks from the Environment, OTA report for the U.S. Congress. Michael Baram, With David Sandberg et al., "Managing Risks to Health, Safety and Environment by the Use of Alternatives to Regulation," 16 New England Law Review 657 (1981). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "The Use of Cost-Benefit Analysis in Regulatory Decision-Making is Proving Harmful to Public Health," in Symposium Management of Assessed Risk for Carcinogens, W. Nicholson. ed., 363 New York Academy of Sciences Annals 123 (1981). Michael Baram, "Cost-Benefit Analysis: An Inadequate Basis for Health, Safety and Environmental Regulatory Decision-Making," 8 Ecology Law Quarterly 473 (1980). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, District Heating and the Clean Air Act, report for Brookhaven National Lab, (1980). Michael Baram, Legal, Economic and Institutional Barriers to Water Re-Use in Northern New England, United States Department of the Interior, Report OWRT/RU-81/6 (1980). Michael Baram, "Panel I: A Fresh Look at Federal Regulatory Strategies," in Symposium Conference on Federal Regulation: Roads to Reform, 32 Administrative Law Review 179 (1980). Michael Baram, The Use of Cost-Benefit Analysis in Federal Regulation of Health, Safety and Environment, report for the National Science Foundation in Recommendations and Reports, Administrative Conference of the U.S., (1980). Michael Baram, "An Assessment of the Use of Cost-Benefit Analysis in Regulatory Agency Decision Making," 20 IDEA: The Journal of Law and Technology 285 (1979). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, David Rice & William Lee, Marine Mining of the Continental Shelf: Legal, Technical, and Environmental Considerations, Ballinger Publishing Co. (1978). Michael Baram, "Medical Device Legislation and the Development and Diffusion of Health Technology," in Technology and the Quality of Health Care 191, R. Egdahl, ed., Aspen Publishing (1978). Michael Baram, The Economic Feasibility of Artificial Islands for Cluster-siting of Offshore Energy Facilities, Brookhaven National Lab, BNL- 22806 (1977). Michael Baram, "EPA Decision-Making: Legal Aspects of Manpower for Environmental Pollution Control," in Manpower for Environmental Pollution Control Appendix A, National Academy of Sciences (1977). Michael Baram, Federal Agency Decision-Making on Matters Involving Scientific and Technological Uncertainties, 8 volume draft report for the Administrative Conference of the U.S., (1977). Michael Baram, Federal Energy Regulation and the Use of Cost-Benefit Analysis, report for Brookhaven National Lab, (1977). Michael Baram, "Legal and Regulatory Aspects of Ionizing Radiation Control," in Considerations of Health Benefit-Cost Analysis for Activities Involving Ionizing Radiation Exposure and Alternatives 74, National Academy of Sciences (1977). Michael Baram, "Radiation from Nuclear Plants: The Need for Congressional Directives," 14 Harvard Journal on Legislation 905 (1977). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, Act Providing for Development of Solar Energy in Massachusetts, House 4316, Commonwealth of Massachusetts (1976). Michael Baram, "Environmental Decision-Making and Facilities-Siting," 102 Engineering Issues 211 (1976). Michael Baram, Environmental Law and the Siting of Facilities, Ballinger Publishing Co. (1976). Michael Baram, "Introductory Remarks," 16 Jurimetrics Journal 160 (1976). Originally presented at the Annual American Bar Association Meeting.HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, New Source Performance Standards for New Energy Systems, report for Brookhaven National Lab, (1976). Michael Baram & T. D. Backstrom, Offshore Energy Facilities: Legal and Economic Analysis v.1, Brookhaven National Lab, BNL-50566 (June 1, 1976). Michael Baram, "Regulation of Environmental Carcinogens," 78:8 Technology Review 40 (1976). Michael Baram, "Some Regulatory Implications of Technology Assessment," 16 Jurimetrics Journal 194 (1976). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Environmental Decision-Making and the Siting of Facilities," 5 Environmental Law Reporter 50089 (1975). Michael Baram, "State Energy Legislation and the Siting of Facilities," in The Northeastern States Confront the Energy Crisis: Papers of the Regional Response to the Energy Crisis, A Conference of Legislative Leaders from the Northeastern States , National Science Foundation (1975). Michael Baram, "Confessions of a Register Addict," 13:4 Columbia Journalism Review 39 (1974). Michael Baram, "Environmental Law and Construction Project Management," 6 Public Contract Law Journal 210 (1974). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Legal Aspects of Mariculture," in Problems and Potentials of Recycling Wastes for Aquaculture , J. Kildow, ed., MIT (1974). Michael Baram, "Processes and Regulations for Utilization of Hard Minerals from Offshore Sources," in TUB-3 , Technical University of Berlin (1974). Michael Baram & William Lee, Report on the Legal and Other Critical Issues Associated with Offshore Extraction of Sand and Gravel in Long Island Sound, report for the U.S. Army Corps Engineers, N.E. Div., (1974). Michael Baram, Law and Social Control of Science and Technology, MIT report for the National Endowment for Humanities, (1973). Michael Baram, review of Laurence H. Tribe, Stephen Breyer & Paul W. MacAvoy, Symposium on Law and Technology, Southern California Law Review (1973), 14 Technology and Culture 343 (1973). Michael Baram, "Technology Assessment and Social Control," 180 Science 465 (1973). Also published in 14 Jurimetrics Journal 79 (1973).HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Future Growth and Technology," 32:3 The Humanist 6 (1972). Michael Baram, "The Legal and Regulatory Framework for Thermal Discharge from Nuclear Power Plants," 2 Environmental Affairs 505 (1972). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, Report of Task Force on Human Resources, Massachusetts Office of Environmental Affairs, (1972). Michael Baram & S. Mauch, Chemicals in the Environment: Outline for a Systematic Approach, OECD, Report NR/ENV/71/43 (1971). Michael Baram & Jeffry Gerber, Legal Aspects of S. 308, Clean Air Act, re International Trade in New Motor Vehicles and Engines, report for the OECD, (1971). Michael Baram & Gerald O. Barney, "Manpower for Environmental Action," 73:7 Technology Review 48 (1971). Michael Baram, "Social Control of Science and Technology," 173 Science 535 (1971). Michael Baram, "Extemporaneous Comment," 47 Denver Law Journal 621 (1970). [Comment on Arthur Selwyn Miller, "The Law School as a Center for Policy Analysis," 47 Denver Law Journal 587 (1970).]HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Social Control of Science and Technology," 47 Denver Law Journal 567 (1970). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Michael Baram, "Trade Secrets: What Price Loyalty," 46 Harvard Business Review 66 (1968). Michael Baram, "Buy American," 7 Boston College Industrial and Commercial Law Review 269 (1966). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
