Madison Condon | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Madison Condon Associate Professor of Law Harvard University, JD The Fletcher School, Tufts University, MA in Law and Diplomacy Columbia University, BS Areas of Interest Corporate, Business & Transactional Law, Economics & Law, Environmental Law Contact Office 1402K Email mecondon@bu.edu Full CV Biography Madison Condon joined Boston University School of Law as an associate professor in July 2020. She teaches Environmental Law, Corporations, and a seminar on climate risk and financialinstitutions. A focus of her recent research is climate changes relationship to corporate governance, market risk, and regulation. She is alsointerested in the use and manipulation of science and economics in administrative law. Professor Condons scholarship has appeared in the Washington Law Review, the Virginia Environmental Law Journal, Land Use Policy, and the Review of Environmental Economics and Policy. Before joining BU Law, Professor Condon was an attorney at New York University School of Laws Institute for Policy Integrity, where she participated in litigation against federal regulatory rollbacks. She clerked for Judge Jane Kelly of the 8th US Circuit Court of Appeals and was a postdoctoral fellow with the Earth Institute at Columbia University. She has consulted for the OECD on carbon regulation and international trade law. Professor Condon holds a JD from Harvard Law School, an MALD from Tufts Universitys Fletcher School, and a BS in Earth and Environmental Engineering from Columbia University. She was a Fulbright Fellow to the Netherlands where she researched water resources management at the Delft University of Technology. Publications Madison Condon, Michael Livermore & Jeffrey Shrader, "Assessing the Rationale for the U.S. EPAs Proposed 'Strengthening Transparency In Regulatory Science' Rule," 14 Review of Environmental Economics and Policy 131 (2020). Publisher Madison Condon, "Climate Changes New Ally: Big Finance," Boston Review (July 28, 2020). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, "Externalities and the Common Owner," 95 Washington Law Review 1 (2020). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, "The Firm Administering the Coronavirus Rescue Considers Climate Risks in Its Ordinary Investments," Slate.com (April 20, 2020). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, "Rural America's Drinking Water Crisis," 44 Human Rights 12 (2019). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, Richard Revesz & Burcin Unel, Managing the Future of Energy Storage: Implications for Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Institute for Policy Integrity, (2018). Publisher Madison Condon, Sophia Rhee, Elias Nyanza, Joshua Fisher, Theresia Maduka & Anja Benshaul-Tolonen, "Understanding Environmental, Health and Economic Interactions Following Transition of Ownership in Gold Mining Areas in Tanzania: A Case of Private to Public," 79 Land Use Policy 650 (2018). Publisher Madison Condon, "Citizen Scientists, Data Transparency, and the Mining Industry," 32 Natural Resources & Environment 24 (2017). Publisher Madison Condon, "The Integration of Environmental Law into International Investment Treaties and Trade Agreements: Negotiation Process and the Legalization of Commitments," 33 Virginia Environmental Law Journal 102 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, Erum Sattar, Anjali Lohani & Don Kriens, "Challenge and Response in the Indus Basin," 16 Water Policy 58 (2014). Publisher Madison Condon & Ada Ignaciuk, "Border Carbon Adjustment and International Trade: A Literature Review," 2013/06 OECD Trade and Environment Working Papers (2013). Publisher | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, "China in Africa: What the Policy of Nonintervention Adds to the Western Development Dilemma," 27 Praxis: The Fletcher Journal of Human Security 5 (2012). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, Hans Komakech & Pieter van der Zaag, "The Role of Statutory and Local Rules in Allocating Water between Large- and Small-Scale Irrigators in an African River Catchment," 38 Water SA 115 (2012). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Madison Condon, Michael Surgan & Caroline Cox, "Pesticide Risk Indicators: Unidentified Inert Ingredients Compromise Their Integrity and Utility," 45 Environmental Management 834 (2010). Publisher Madison Condon, David Ho, Victor Engel, Evan Variano & Paul Schmieder, "Tracer studies of sheet flow in the Florida Everglades," 36 Geophysical Research Letters 9 (2009). Publisher View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
