Stephen G. Marks | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Stephen G. Marks Professor of Law BA magna cum laude, University of California-Irvine JD and PhD in Economics, University of California-Berkeley Areas of Interest Corporate, Business & Transactional Law, Economics & Law Contact Office Room 1404B Email smarks@bu.edu Phone 617-358-3213 Full CVSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography Stephen Marks has been a distinguished member of the Boston University community for many years. He began his teaching career in 1981 at the Universitys School of Management, where he taught courses in banking, finance, investments, corporations, economics and decision making. Since joining the School of Law faculty in 1988, Professor Marks has taught courses in Corporations, Mergers and Acquisitions, Legislation, Securities Regulation, and the Economic Analysis of Law. I enjoy these subjects because they are so relevant for lawyers and for the organization of society, he says. For example, in every practice area, lawyers come face-to-face with corporations. If someone were to come from another planet and wanted to understand how human society was organized, it would not be long until they asked the question, what is a corporation? And economics provides students with a powerful and rigorous tool for analyzing law and legal institutions. Co-author of the textbook Managerial Economics (eighth edition), published in 2014, Professor Marks work has appeared widely in journals of law and economics, including the American Economic Review, the Journal of Legal Studies, The Encyclopedia of Law and Economics, the Boston University Law Review, the Journal Financial and Quantitative Analysis, among others. He also co-wrote a book on raising children bilingually that was published by the University of Texas Press. Professor Marks writes occasional online popular press articles on politics, economics, and afreeist philosophy. He is a founding member of the Afreeist Society and has written a book on the subject. Recently, Professor Marks spent a sabbatical year in Nicaragua with his family directing a micro-financing program there. Professor Marks lives in Boston with his wife and youngest daughter. Two other daughters are graduates of Boston University. Professor Marks is active in the peace and justice movement, and also dabbles in beer-making, bee-keeping and guitar (rock, blues, and Celtic music). Publications Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 8th ed., Wiley (2015). Publisher Stephen Marks, "The Market in Unmatured Tort Claims: Twenty Years Later," 34 Pace Law Review 185 (2014). SSRN Stephen Marks & Jeffrey Marks, Becoming a Bilingual Family: Help Your Kids Learn Spanish (and Learn Spanish Yourself in the Process), University of Texas Press (2013). Publisher Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 7th ed., John Wiley (2011). Stephen Marks, "Valuing the Future: Intergenerational Discounting, Its Problems, and a Modest Proposal," 41:7 Environmental Law Reporter 10615 (2011). Westlaw | SSRN Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 6th ed., Wiley (2010). Stephen Marks, "Reply & Response: A Comment on the Relationship Between Judicial Salary and Judicial Quality," 88 Boston University Law Review 843 (2008). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 5th ed., Wiley (2006). Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 4th ed., Wiley (2003). Stephen Marks, "The Separation of Ownership and Control," in Encyclopedia of Law and Economics 692, B. Bouckaert & Gerrit De Geest, eds., Edward Elgar Publishing Limited (2000). Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 3d ed., Dryden Press (1999). Stephen Marks, "Legal Differences Without Economic Distinctions: Points, Penalties, and the Market for Mortgages," 77 Boston University Law Review 405 (1997). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stephen Marks & Michael Rukstad, "Teaching Macroeconomics by the Case Method," 27 Journal of Economic Education 139 (1996). Stephen Marks, "Utility and Community: Musings on the Tort-Crime Distinction," 76 Boston University Law Review 215 (1996). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, 2d ed., Dryden Press (1995). Stephen Marks, "Discontinuities, Causation, and Grady's Uncertainty Theorem," 23 Journal of Legal Studies 287 (1994). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stephen Marks & William F. Samuelson, Managerial Economics, Dryden Press (1992). Stephen Marks, "Of Posin and Pigs, of Coase and Cost," 38 Wayne Law Review 47 (1991). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stephen Marks & Alex Kane, "The Delivery of Market Timing Services: Newsletters Versus Market Timing Funds," 1 Journal of Financial Intermediation 150 (1990). SSRN Stephen Marks & Alex Kane, "Performance Evaluation of Market Timers: Theory and Evidence," 23 Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 45 (1988). SSRN Stephen Marks & N. Kulatilaka, "The Strategic Value of Flexibility: Reducing the Ability to Compromise," 78 American Economic Review 574 (1988). Stephen Marks & Alex Kane, "The Rocking-Horse Analyst," 13 Journal of Portfolio Management 32 (Spring 1987). Stephen Marks, "Negligence, Causation, and Information," 31 McGill Law Journal 128 (1985). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Stephen Marks, "Tax Income Again and Again," The Wall Street Journal __ (June 24, 1985). Stephen Marks & N. Kulatilaka, "The Value of Flexibility in a Certain World," in Proceedings of the Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique - Conference on Production Systems , (Apr. 1985). Stephen Marks & R. Cooter, "Bargaining in the Shadow of the Law: A Testable Model for Strategic Behavior," 11 Journal of Legal Studies 225 (1982). In the MediaOctober 24, 2019Opinion: Paying for Medicare for All? No ProblemStephen Marks authors a piece in theLos Angeles Times. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
