Theodore S. Sims | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Theodore S. Sims Professor of Law AB, Columbia University JD cum laude, University of Chicago Law School PhD in Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Areas of Interest Corporate Finance, Federal Taxation, Tax Law, Tax Policy Contact Office Room 1604A Email sims@bu.edu Phone 617-353-2797 Full CVSSRN Author Page Biography Following law school, Theodore Sims clerked for the Honorable John C. Godbold, of the United States Court of Appeals for the (then) 5th Circuit, practiced with (then) Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, in Washington, DC, and served with the Office of Tax Policy of the United States Treasury. Upon leaving government service in 1981 he joined the faculty of the George Washington University Law School. While at GW Professor Sims completed a PhD in economics at MIT. He visited at the University of Michigan Law School in 1995, and joined the BU Law faculty in 1996. He visited at Harvard Law School in 2005. Professor Sims areas of expertise include the taxation of capital income (including timing issues and the taxation of financial instruments), wealth transfer taxation, federal tax policy (including structural aspects of the tax system), and the effects of tax policy on inequality. He has taught federal income taxation, taxation of financial instruments, taxation of corporations and shareholders, tax policy, law and economics, social scientific methods, and trusts and estates. His current research interests include the taxation of cancellation of indebtedness income, the income taxation of risk, aspects of the taxation of financial instruments, and the treatment of deferral in general. His past work includes studies of the structure of wealth transfer taxation and structural aspects of tax shelters, as well as theoretical and econometric work on the relationship between tax-motivated trading and stock market returns. Professor Sims has taught courses in discounting and the taxation of debt in the NYU/IRS continuing legal education program, in connection with which he developed materials on discounting that integrate the study of the present value fundamentals with the implementation of present value in computer spreadsheets, and apply those methods to understanding the taxation of debt instruments. He has served as a consultant to the US Treasury, has been a member of the American Law and Economics Association and is a member of the American Law Institute. Publications Theodore Sims, "Income Taxation and Asset Valuation (II) The Value of Preferential Taxation," 71 Tax Law Review 53 (2017). HeinOnline Theodore Sims, "Income Taxation, Wealth Effects, and Uncertainty: Portfolio Adjustments with Isoelastic Utility and Discrete Probability," 135 Economic Letters 52 (2015). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Theodore Sims, "A Tale of Four Treatments: Preferential Taxation and Asset Valuation," Tax Law Review (forthcoming). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Theodore Sims, "Capital Income, Risky Investments, and Income and Cash-Flow Taxation," 67 Tax Law Review 3 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Theodore Sims, "Qualified Conservation Restrictions: Recollections of and Reflections on the Origins of Section 170(h)," 33 Utah Environmental Law Review 41 (2013). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Theodore Sims, "Income Taxation and Asset Valuation (I): Economic Depreciation, Accrual Taxation, and the Samuelson Theorem," 66 Tax Law Review 217 (2012). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Theodore Sims, "Debt, Accelerated Depreciation, and the Tale of a Teakettle: Tax Shelter Abuse Reconsidered," 42 UCLA Law Review 263 (1994). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Theodore Sims, "Environmental 'Remediation' Expenses and a Natural Interpretation of the Capitalization Requirement," 47 National Tax Journal 703 (1994). Publisher Theodore Sims, "Long-Term Debt, the Term Structure of Interest and the Case for Accrual Taxation," 47 Tax Law Review 313 (1992). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Theodore Sims & Emil M. Sunley, review of Myron S. Scholes et al., Taxes and Business Strategy: A Planning Approach, Prentice Hall (1992), 45 National Tax Journal 451 (1992). Theodore Sims, James S. Halpern et al., "The Passive Activity Loss Limitation Rules: Where Are We Now? Part I," 12 Review of Taxation of Individuals 187 (1988). Theodore Sims, James S. Halpern et al., "The Passive Activity Loss Limitation Rules: Where Are We Now? Part II," 12 Review of Taxation of Individuals 291 (1987). Theodore Sims, review of Howard M. Zaritsky, Tax Planning for Family Wealth Transfers: Analysis with Forms, Warren, Gorham & Lamont (1985), 11 Review of Taxation of Individuals 89 (1987). Theodore Sims, Noel Cunningham & James S. Halpern, "Selected Problems on the Time Value of Money," in Time Value of Money Rules Under the 1984 Tax Act , Mortimer Maxwell Caplin, ed., Law and Business (1984). Theodore Sims, The Equity Return to Mutual Life Insurance Companies and Their Policyholders, paper submitted for Tax Treatment of Life Insurance: Hearings Before the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures of the House Committee on Ways and Means, 98th Cong. 1st Sess., at 591, Serial No. 98-39, (1983). Theodore Sims, "Timing Under a Unified Wealth Transfer Tax," 51 University of Chicago Law Review 34 (1983). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Theodore Sims, "Once More into the Breach: Promissory Estoppel and Traditional Damage Doctrine," 37 University of Chicago Law Review 559 (1970). Courses Corporate Finance: LAW JD 985 3 credits This course covers the foundations of corporate finance. It starts with the concepts of time value of money, discounting, and present value. With that background it then considers the major financial decisions made by corporate managers. Topics include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities, criteria for making investment decisions, business valuation, relationships between risk and return, portfolio theory, market efficiency, capital structure choice, and cost of capital. NOTE: Professor Marks's section will require Business Fundamentals as a pre-requisite and Corporations as a pre or co-requisite. SPRG 2021: LAW JD 985 B1 , Jan 19th to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 2:15 pm 3:45 pm 3 Stephen G. Marks FALL 2019: LAW JD 985 A1 , Sep 4th to Dec 4th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 2:15 pm 3:45 pm 3 Theodore S. Sims LAW 212 SPRG 2020: LAW JD 985 B1 , Jan 13th to Apr 22nd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 2:10 pm 3:40 pm 3 Kathryn Griner LAW 212 Introduction to Federal Income Taxation: LAW JD 889 4 credits The income tax is a pervasive feature of life in the United States and lawyers encounter tax issues in virtually every field of practice. This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of the federal income tax, and its impact on a wide range of matters, including employment, tort claims, divorce, retirement, and especially business activities and investments of all types. Topics include: the concept of income, determination of gross income, allowance of deductions and the determination of taxable income, identification of the taxpayer, taxable periods and timing, the determination of gain or loss (including realization and recognition) from dealings in property, the concept of income tax basis, and the process of change in the tax law. GRADING NOTICE: This course does not offer the CR/NC/H option. FALL 2020: LAW JD 889 A1 , Sep 1st to Dec 4th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 11:00 am 12:15 pm 4 Alan L. Feld NIP 320 Fri 11:00 am 12:15 pm 4 Alan L. Feld NIP 320 SPRG 2021: LAW JD 889 W1 , Jan 19th to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 9:00 am 10:30 am 4 David I. WalkerDavid I. Walker Fri 9:00 am 10:20 am 4 David I. WalkerDavid I. Walker FALL 2019: LAW JD 889 A1 , Sep 3rd to Dec 5th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 10:45 am 12:00 pm 4 Alan L. Feld LAW 605 Fri 10:30 am 11:45 am 4 Alan L. Feld LAW 605 FALL 2019: LAW JD 889 S1 , Sep 4th to Dec 4th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 9:00 am 10:30 am 4 Theodore S. Sims LAW 212 Fri 9:00 am 10:20 am 4 Theodore S. Sims LAW 212 Tax Policy (S): LAW JD 799 3 credits This seminar will examine criteria used to make administrative and legislative choices in taxation: equity, efficiency, administrability and simplicity. As a particular focus, we will study some of the connections between a tax system and spending programs. PREREQUISITE: Introduction to Federal Income Taxation. LIMITED WRITING OPTION: A limited number of students will be able to satisfy the writing requirement with a paper. ** A student who fails to attend the initial meeting of a seminar, or to obtain permission to be absent from either the instructor or the Registrar, will be administratively dropped from the seminar. Students who waitlist for a seminar are required to attend the first seminar meeting to be considered for enrollment. SPRG 2020: LAW JD 799 A1 , Jan 14th to Apr 21st 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue 10:40 am 12:40 pm 3 Theodore S. Sims LAW 518 View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
