Maria OBrien | School of Law Important Announcement2 December, 2020 at 1:14 PMVisit Back2BU for the latest updates and information on BU's response to COVID-19. Students can find additional information in the Undergraduate Student Guide and Graduate & Professional Student Guide. Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Menu About BU Law Events Calendar Conferences & Lectures History of the School Meet the Dean Offices & Departments Diversity at BU Law Visit BU Law Law School Complex Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries BU Law Portrait Gallery Mission Statement ABA Required Disclosures Academics Academic Calendar Areas of Study JD Degree LLM & Masters Degrees Dual Degrees Certificates Learning Outcomes Law Journals Admissions JD Admissions LLM Admissions Financial Aid Tuition & Fees Admitted Students Connect Virtually Living in Boston Student Life Careers Recruitment Programs JD Career Advising & Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Employment Sectors Public Service Programs First Job After BU Law Where Graduates Work Employment Statistics Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Profiles Faculty Spotlight Activities & Engagements CARB-X Technology & Policy Research Initiative Legal History: The Year Books Visiting Scholars Program Visiting Assistant Professor Program News & Stories Issues Collections About The Record Current Students JD Student Resources Graduate Programs Resources Be in the Know: Title IX/Sexual Misconduct JD Career Development Resources Graduate Programs Professional Development Commencement Ceremony Course & Seminar Descriptions Exam Information & Policies Financial Aid Information Fineman & Pappas Law Library Resources Student Affairs Programs & Resources Student Records Transcript Orders Faculty & Staff Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Fineman & Pappas Law Library Services Teaching Resources for Faculty Colloquia & Faculty Workshops Law School Technology Services Law School Room Reservations Human Resources & Payroll Services Reimbursements & Vendor Payments Logos & Brand Standards Law School Event Planning Alumni The Campaign for BU Law Reunion Weekend for Law School Alumni The Record Magazine Law School Alumni Events Give Back to BU School of Law Stay Connected to BU Law Alumni Directory News About Our Alumni Alumni Spotlights Annual Alumni Awards Employers Our Students On-Campus Interview Program Off-Campus Recruiting Programs Post A Job for Students or Graduates Contact Career Development Office Public Service Fellowships In-House Counsel Fellowship Program Small & Mid-size Firm Apprenticeship Program Policies and Guidelines for Employers Support BU Law Boston University School of Law Search Search Search for: Maria OBrien Professor of Law AB magna cum laude, Harvard University JD, Yale University Areas of Interest Contracts, Employment Law, ERISA, Insurance Law Contact Office Room 1402H Email mobrien8@bu.edu Phone 617-353-6679 Full CVSSRN Author PageGoogle Scholar Page Biography Noted employee benefits law and insurance law specialist Maria OBrien began her teaching career at Boston University School of Law in 1988. She taught at De Paul University College of Law from 1989 until rejoining the Boston University faculty in 1995, and was a visiting professor at the University of Chicago Law School in 1993. While in law school, Professor OBrien was editor of the Yale Law & Policy Review. After graduation, she served as a law clerk for Judge Gilbert S. Merritt of the US Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and then as an associate at the Boston law firm of Hale and Dorr. She has numerous publications to her credit, most recently articles about pension plan recoupment of over payments in the Kansas Law Journal and the effects of overruling Abood on public sector employees in the Connecticut Insurance Law Journal. She also is the co-author of Cases and Materials on Employee Benefits Law and Using Civil Remedies for Criminal Behavior: Rationale, Case Studies, and Constitutional Issues. Her most recent lectures include Friedrichs and the Move Toward Private Ordering of Public Employee Wages and Benefits, at the 5th Annual Employee Benefits Conference (2016), Understanding the Moral Hazard of Public Pensions at the Creighton Law Review Symposium in 2014 and Employee Benefits in Turmoil at the Law & Society meeting in 2012. Professor OBrien teaches courses on employment law, ERISA, contracts, and insurance law. She has long been active in a number of professional organizations. She is a member of the American Law Institute (ALI) and an editor of the Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal. She serves on the board of the Pension Action Center which provides free legal services to low income retirees and their dependents. Publications Maria Hylton, "A Common-Sense Defense of Janus: Forthcoming Changes in the Public Sector," in Symposium The Modern Workplace: Contemporary Legal Issues in Employment & Labor Law, 6 Belmont Law Review 41 (2019). HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "A Few Observations about the Curious State of Massachusetts Labor Law: Public-Sector Unions after Janus," 22 Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal 301 (2018). HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Friedrichs and the Move Toward Private Ordering of Public Employee Wages and Benefits," 23 Connecticut Insurance Law Journal 177 (2016-17). Publisher | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton & Jeanne Medeiros, "Recoupment of Pension Overpayments: Equitable Liens and Meaningful Reform After Montanile," 26 Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy 195 (2017). Publisher | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | SSRN | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "After Tackett: Incomplete Contracts for Post-Employment Healthcare," 36 Pace Law Review 317 (2016). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "Introduction to Thinking About a Post-ACA World: Litigation, Cost Shifting and Enforcement of Statutory Rights," 20 Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal 129 (2016). Papers from the Association of America Law Schools 2016 Annual Meeting, Sections on Employee Benefits and Executive Compensation, and Medicine and HealthcareHeinOnline Maria Hylton, "The Case for Public Pension Reform: Early Evidence from Kentucky," 47 Creighton Law Review 585 (2014). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Publisher | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "Central Falls Retirees v. Bondholders: Assessing Fear of Contagion in Chapter 9 Proceedings," 59 Wayne Law Review 525 (2013). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "Disclosure to the Rescue: A Conceptual Framework for Retained Asset Accounts," 80 Tennessee Law Review 69 (2012-13). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "Combating Moral Hazard: The Case for Rationalizing Public Employee Benefits," 45 Indiana Law Review 413 (2011-12). SSRN | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "The Other Situation in New Jersey: The State of Public Pension and Retiree Health Plans and Prospects for Reform," Employee Benefits Committee Newsletter, ABA Section of Labor and Employment Law (Win 2011). Maria Hylton, "Post-Firestone Skirmishes: The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Discretionary Clauses and Judicial Review of ERISA Plan Administrator Decisions," 2 William & Mary Policy Review 1 (2010). SSRN | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Scholarly Commons Maria Hylton, "Together We Can: Imagining the Future of Employee Pension Plans," Employee Pensions: Policies, Problems & Possibilities, T. Ghilarducci & C. E. Weller, eds., ILR Press (2007), 12 Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal 383 (2009). Westlaw | Lexis Advance Maria Hylton, "Creeping Impoverization: Material Conditions, Income Inequality and ERISA Pedagogy Early in the 21st Century," 34 Fordham Urban Law Journal 1355 (2007). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Insecure Retirement Income, Wrongful Plan Administration and Other Employee Benefits Woes -- Evaluating ERISA at Age Thirty," 53 Buffalo Law Review 1193 (2005). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "The Changing World of Employee Benefits," 79 Chicago Kent Law Review 625 (2004). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "The Supreme Court's Labor and Employment Decisions: 2002-2003 Term," 19 The Labor Lawyer 247 (2003). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Foreword," in Symposium on Employee Benefits, 5 Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal 1 (2001). Westlaw | Lexis Advance Maria Hylton, "Y2K ERISA Update: Key Issues and Trends Facing Employers and Plan Participants," 51 Labor Law Journal 96 (2000). Maria Hylton, "ERISA in the Larger EEO Context," 3 Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal 131 (1999). Proceedings of the 1999 Annual Meeting AALS Section on Employment Discrimination Law: Is There a Disconnect Between EEO Law and the Workplace?Westlaw | Lexis Advance Maria Hylton & Lorraine Schmall, Cases and Materials on Employee Benefits Law, West Group Publishing (1998). Maria Hylton, "Evaluating the Case for Social Security Reform: Elderly Poverty, Paternalism and Private Pensions," 64 Brooklyn Law Review 749 (1998). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Recent Developments in ERISA Law," 49 Labor Law Journal 1065 (1998). Maria Hylton, "Discussant's Notes," in Symposium Industrial Relations Research Association Annual Meeting, Proceedings of the Forty-Ninth Annual Meeting 226 (1997). Maria Hylton, "Some Preliminary Thoughts on the Deregulation of Insurance to Advantage the Working Poor," 24 Fordham Urban Law Journal 687 (1997). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Legal and Policy Implications of the Flexible Employment Relationship," 17 Journal of Labor Relations 589 (1996). Maria Hylton, "The Case Against Regulating the Market for Contingent Employment," 52 Washington & Lee Law Review 11 (1995). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Insurance Risk Classification After McGann: Managing Risk Efficiently in the Shadow of the ADA," 47 Baylor Law Review 59 (1995). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton & P. Finn, Using Civil Remedies for Criminal Behavior: Rational, Case Studies and Constitutional Issues, National Institute of Justice (1994). Maria Hylton, "Working and Poor: The Increasingly Popular Practice of Excluding Disabled Employees from Health Care Coverage," 3 Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy 92 (1994). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "The Economics and Politics of Emergency Health Care for the Poor: The Patient Dumping Dilemma," 1992 Brigham Young University Law Review 971 (1992). Westlaw | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton, "Personal Narratives and Racial Distinctiveness in the Legal Academy," review of Patricia J. Williams, The Alchemy of Race and Rights, Harvard University Press (1992), 41 DePaul Law Review 1407 (1992). Maria Hylton, "Socially Responsible Investing in an Inefficient Market: Doing Good Versus Doing Well," 42 American University Law Review 1 (1992). Westlaw | Lexis Advance Maria Hylton, "'Parental Leaves', and Poor Women: Paying the Price for Time Off," 52 University of Pittsburgh Law Review 475 (1991). Westlaw | Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline Maria Hylton & Keith Hylton, "Rent Appropriation and the Labor Law Doctrine of Successorship," 70 Boston University Law Review 821 (1990). Lexis Advance | HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Westlaw | Scholarly Commons Keith Hylton & Maria Hylton, "Rational Decisions and Regulation of Union Entry," 34 Villanova Law Review 145 (1989). HeinOnline (BU) | HeinOnline | Westlaw Courses Contracts for LLMs: LAW AM 812 4 credits This course will use the case method to examine legal and equitable remedies for enforcing contracts, determining what promises are enforceable, elements of assent, standards of fairness and restrictions on bargaining process, and tests for performance and breach. Designed for students preparing to sit for the bar, this course will focus on those areas emphasized on the multi-state, New York, and Massachusetts bar exams. GRADING NOTICE: This class will not offer the CR/NC/H option. FALL 2020: LAW AM 812 A1 , Aug 31st to Dec 7th 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 2:10 pm 4:10 pm 4 Stephen M. Donweber LAW 605 SPRG 2021: LAW AM 812 A1 , Jan 19th to Apr 22nd 2021 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 8:30 am 10:30 am 4 Maria OBrien FALL 2019: LAW AM 812 A1 , Sep 4th to Dec 4th 2019 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Mon,Wed 10:40 am 12:40 pm 4 Stephen M. Donweber LAW 414 Employee Benefits & Executive Compensation: LAW JD 790 4 credits This course provides a comprehensive overview of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and its subsequent amendments (including the Affordable Care Act). Special attention is paid to the creation and maintenance of both pension and welfare plans and to plan operation, funding, amendments, accrual and vesting. For pensions, the focus is on qualified plans and the special problems presented by highly compensated employees, IRS "anti-discrimination" rules and by bankruptcy and divorce. The course also covers the regulation of self insured and traditionally insured health care plans as well as long and short term disability, severance and plan termination. The semester ends with an introduction to the responsibilities of plan fiduciaries, ERISA preemption, and section 502(a) claims and remedies. SPRG 2020: LAW JD 790 A1 , Jan 14th to Apr 21st 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 10:40 am 12:40 pm 4 Maria OBrien LAW 520 Insurance Law: LAW JD 850 3 credits The presence or absence of insurance is in many instances the single most important determinant of whether and how a tort or contracts action is litigated. This course focuses on both individual and commercial forms of insurance coverage. Students are introduced to the key insurance concepts of risk management, including the transfer, pooling and allocation of covered risks. Problems of contract interpretation, imperfect information, adverse selection and discrimination will be treated at length. Additionally, the class will take up issues particular to property, life, health, disability, liability and auto insurance. Finally, some time will be devoted to the state regulatory regimes designed to ensure solvency and profitability, and to the secondary market (i.e. reinsurance, and surplus and excess lines). A final exam is required. FALL 2020: LAW JD 850 A1 , Sep 1st to Dec 3rd 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 10:45 am 12:15 pm 3 Maria OBrien NIP 320 SPRG 2020: LAW JD 850 A1 , Jan 14th to Apr 21st 2020 Days Start End Credits Instructors Bldg Room Tue,Thu 2:10 pm 3:35 pm 3 Maria OBrien LAW 416 In the MediaOctober 9, 2019Supreme Court Case Creates Jitters for Defined Benefit Plan ManagersMaria OBrien quoted in the Financial Times. read moreMay 3, 2017Trumps Tricky Relationship With UnionsMaria O'Brien quoted in Inside Sources. read moreAugust 11, 2015Insurance Facts for Uber, Lyft, and Sidecar DriversMaria O'Brien quoted in WalletHub. read more View all profiles BU Law News The Sociological Realities of Dating Shows My days as dean have always been long, but they have become much longer since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I am not working, I often will veg out with my family, read interesting articles, write, play Scrabble (which I never really played before), and try to clear my mind. Barriers that Bend but Dont Break Clara Burrill Bruce ('26) was the only African American woman in her class, and her election to chair of the Boston University Law Review was historic: she was the first woman to head the publication at BU and the first African American to become editor-in-chief of a law review anywhere in the country. Keeping His Eye on the Ball Four months before the COVID-19 pandemic hit Florida, Dan Malasky (01), chief legal officer for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was thinking about the possibility of a work stoppage. Instead of worrying about a virus, he was preparing scenarios related to a potential labor dispute. BU Law Events 4 Feb Pike Lecture 5 Feb AJLM Symposium: Legal Innovations in Response to Public Health Crises 10 Feb $629 Band-Aids and $20,243 Bike Crashes: The High Prices of Americas Emergency Rooms.19 Feb JOSTL Symposium BU Law in the Media December 11, 2020 Analysis-U.S. Blessing Facebook Deals Complicates Lawsuit Demanding Instagram Sale Rory Van Loo is quoted. December 11, 2020 Facebook Could be Broken Up Over Antitrust Rulings Tiffany Li is quoted. December 11, 2020 Can the Government Force You to Get a Coronavirus Vaccine to Travel? Christopher Robertson is quoted. Contact LawJD Admissions LLM Admissions Career Development & Public Service Communications & Marketing Development & Alumni Relations Faculty & Staff Directory Connect With BU LawInstagram Twitter YouTube Facebook LinkedIn Law Blogs Visit BU Law 765 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215 Boston University Boston University School of Law Moving Forward Fineman & Pappas Law Libraries Give Back to BU School of Law Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Licensing Disclosures
