UCI - Recruit Skip to main content Recruit Help for Applicants Portfolios Filling Out My Application PDFs Need more help? For recruitment related questions, use the contact link at the bottom of the recruitment's description page. For technical assistance, Contact us. General informationWhat is Recruit?Recruit is a program for managing the faculty recruitment process at UC Irvine. The system allows applicants to apply for positions electronically, uploading and revising application materials as needed. The status of the application may be checked as frequently as necessary and questions for the hiring department or for general technical support may be emailed directly from the system. Apply for a positionCreating an application Locate the desired position in the list of open recruitments on Recruit's apply page at /apply. Click the recruitment to which you wish to apply. Read the application submission dates, the position's description, and the requirements. When you're ready, click the button, Apply Now Provide your email address. If you've previously verified your email address, you can provide your email and password to log in to your portfolio. The application information from your last application will be reused for this one. Verify that it's still up to date by clicking through the Next buttons. If you've never verified your email address, you'll be asked to do so now. This ensures that the hiring committee can contact you. Prove that you're not a robot by checking the box Click Send verification email Check your email for a message named "[UC Irvine Recruit] Please verify your email address" Click the link inside to return to Recruit Choose a password Provide application information. If you've previously applied at UC Irvine this may be reused from your last application. Verify that it's still up to date by clicking through the Next buttons. Review the information you have entered and click the button, Save my information. Your application will be created and you will be brought to the Position Information page to continue your application. Recruit will send you a "Thank you for applying" email. Returning to your application If you have logged out of your application, navigate to Recruit's apply page at /apply Click the big orange "Log in to your portfolio" button to log in. Provide your email address Click "Next" Provide your password Click "Log in" You will now be logged in to your Portfolio Log in troubles If you find yourself unable to log in, you can reset your password. Click the link "Trouble logging in?" Provide and confirm your email address The following confirmation message will appear: "In a few moments you should receive an email containing a link to reset your password." Wait a few moments then check your email for a message from Recruit. The subject line will be "[UC Irvine Recruit] Password Reset". Follow the link in the email to return to Recruit In the form provided, set a new password, then click "Confirm" You will be logged in to your portfolio and your password will be updated Withdrawing your applicationIf you wish to withdraw your application from consideration, you may do so by navigating to the Position Details page of your application and selecting the link "withdraw your application". You will then be required to enter a reason for withdrawal before you can click "Yes, withdraw my application". If you change your mind and wish to once again be considered for the position, return to the Position Details page and click "contact the hiring department". Third-party dossier servicesThird-party dossier services, such as Interfolio, may interact with Recruit in a variety of ways. For more information, please contact your third-party provider's help desk. Demographic surveyThe purpose of the Demographic surveyAs Federal Contractors, the University of California is obligated to report on fair practices to assure equal employment opportunity for gender and minorities. When can I take the Demographic survey?Take the Demographic survey at any time after creating your application. Take the Demographic survey: Click the Demographic survey tab. Click the link, Submit demographic survey Fill in the required information. Click the button, Submit survey A confirmation will indicate your survey has been submitted. Academic Personnel Recruit University of California, Irvine UC Irvine Accessibility About Campus privacy policy | GDPR statement 2007-2020 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
