Alumni | Mechanical Engineering Skip to main content Mechanical Engineering Search Search Toggle navigation Search Search Main navigation Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Application Requirements Change of Program Applicants Dual Degree Applicants SUGS/JI-SUGS Applicants Financial Information Information for Incoming Students Reinstatement/Readmission About Welcome from the Chair History Maps & Directions Honors & Awards Trends & Statistics Contact Giving Positions at ME Faculty Positions Academics Undergraduate Undergrad Handbook RISE (Research Projects) ME Undergrad Symposium Capstone Design (ME 450) SURE (Summer Research) Graduate Graduate Handbook Independent Research (ME 590) ME Courses Advising Appointments Contact Academic Services Research Research Areas Biomechanics & Biosystems Control Design Dynamics & Vibration Energy Fluids Manufacturing Mechanics & Materials Mechatronics & Robotics Micro/Nano Engineering Mobility, Automotive, & Transportation Multi-Scale Computation Thermal Sciences Labs & Facilities People Administration Faculty Staff Research Fellows Graduate Students PhD Students Student Groups Alumni External Advisory Board News & Events News Events Seminar Series Publications Newsletter Quicklinks CoE Safety ME Annual Report ME Undergrad Brochure ME Grad Brochure ME Seminar Series Giving Maps & Directions Contact Student Intranet Faculty/Staff Intranet Main navigation Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Application Requirements Change of Program Applicants Dual Degree Applicants SUGS/JI-SUGS Applicants Financial Information Information for Incoming Students Reinstatement/Readmission About Welcome from the Chair History Maps & Directions Honors & Awards Trends & Statistics Contact Giving Positions at ME Faculty Positions Academics Undergraduate Undergrad Handbook RISE (Research Projects) ME Undergrad Symposium Capstone Design (ME 450) SURE (Summer Research) Graduate Graduate Handbook Independent Research (ME 590) ME Courses Advising Appointments Contact Academic Services Research Research Areas Biomechanics & Biosystems Control Design Dynamics & Vibration Energy Fluids Manufacturing Mechanics & Materials Mechatronics & Robotics Micro/Nano Engineering Mobility, Automotive, & Transportation Multi-Scale Computation Thermal Sciences Labs & Facilities People Administration Faculty Staff Research Fellows Graduate Students PhD Students Student Groups Alumni External Advisory Board News & Events News Events Seminar Series Publications Newsletter Quicklinks CoE Safety ME Annual Report ME Undergrad Brochure ME Grad Brochure ME Seminar Series Giving Maps & Directions Contact Student Intranet Faculty/Staff Intranet Home People Alumni Alumni Share Your Story Alumni share how U-M ME shaped their careers and lives. Read more stories Brandon Patterson - MSE, 2014; PhD, 2017My time as a Mechanical Engineering student at UM has helped me discover my professional interests and passions and driven me to a better understanding of myself. When I first came to UM, fresh out of my bachelors degree, I was full of energy and excited to start my graduate career, but I really didnt have a lot of direction. I knew I really enjoyed math and human mechanics, and I wanted to combine these interests to help people, but I still wasn't sure how. When I arrived at Michigan, I seized an opportunity to work with Professor Eric Johnsen, studying the fluid mechanics that described how bubbles could lead to unwanted biological effects during certain medical ultrasound procedures. The idea was that a better understanding of the physics could lead to useful surgeries and evidenced-based regulations. Moreover, the project united my interests perfectly and was both personally motivating and technically challenging. But as research goes, the months passed and buried in day-to-day technical issues, I lost sight of the purpose of my the work and my motivation dwindled. In the hopes of making a difference I could see, I joined the Mechanical Engineering Graduate Council (MEGC), which at that point was just starting. Through MEGC I began creating and organizing STEM outreach events for ME graduate students to work with local schools and students. As part of these events, myself and others volunteers would talk about what we do and why it was so exciting. In organizing these events, I felt like I was making a positive difference in my community. And in sharing the story of my work, I met lots of intrigued and inspired young students who helped me remember why I was doing the work in the first place -- because better medical ultrasound really has the potential to make a difference in peoples lives. This passion for work and outreach has continued and soon I will start a postdoctoral position at the University of Michigan Medical School, where I intend to continue my ultrasound research and outreach. The ME department gave me the opportunities to do impactful and meaningful work both in my technical field and in my local community and ultimately I learned that I am a happier more productive person only balancing the two. Kelsey Hockstad - BSE, 2015; MSE, 2016When I first came on campus, spirit full of optimism, I expected great things from the University of Michigan. By my first week as a Michigan engineering student, I had heard about the time-consuming, challenging, and stressful senior design project, and I was intimidated to say the least. Fast forward three years, and I was standing in the brand new BorgWarner Galleria, scanning through the list of projects, one of which would soon consume my life for the semester. One project title immediately grabbed my attention. It read, Giant Rubiks Cube. Several months earlier, two of my classmates had imagined this engineering twist on the Cube by the Union on central campusa giant, human solvable, fully functional Rubiks cube sculpture for north campus. That day in G. G. Brown, I decided to join the project to create the giant Rubiks cube. None of us had any clue how challenging this project would be. Senior design was over after one semester, but the Rubiks cube project was not finished yet, so the four of us continued our work, overhauling the design twice over the next year and a half. We faced long hours of computer modeling, manufacturing components, and assembling cubelets (our word for the 26 small cubes that comprise a Rubiks cube), and at times we werent sure our mechanical art piece would ever become reality. Those moments of doubt might have halted our project permanently without the support of the department, the Dean, and our encouraging and incredible mentor, Professor Noel Perkins, who never stopped believing in us. We were lucky to have him, as we were lucky in so many other ways. Chance brought the four of us together when we selected our senior design group, but hard work and outstanding mentorship transformed us into a great team that could accomplish what I had thought might not be possible. My teammates are all talented, bright, and innovative, and together we were greater than the sum of our parts. We had everything: a safe and inspiring space to share and create, an ongoing stream-of-consciousness line of communication, and humor to keep us sane when our endless hours of work threatened to drain our motivation. One year after the four of us had graduated and three more students had joined the team, we unveiled the finally finished giant Rubiks cube, a permanent fixture in the mechanical engineering building. Showing our project to the world was surreal, as we remembered how far we had come since we started. We solved the cube for the first time, then watched as the Dean, fellow students, and some of our favorite professors scrambled it again. As we had hoped from the beginning, this Rubiks cube brought people together, its scale requiring cooperation as opposed to the original puzzle, which is usually meant for one person to solve alone. Our cube is meant to inspire teamwork, to show that some problems are better solved together. For me, the giant Rubiks cube represents great teamwork and indispensable leadership, the paragon to which I will compare all future teams. I am forever grateful that I had the opportunity to participate in this project, with these incredible people. Madison Strauss - BSE, 2017; MSE, 2018I remember driving to skating practice at the end of my freshman year and saying to my teammate: "I love it here so much, I've already decided I'm going to stay for my M.S.E. after I graduate." Pretty bold statement, right? At that moment, I had based this decision on several things: the incredible professors and GSIs I had already been fortunate to interact with, the hands-on experience I received as part of my Engineering 100 team and Supermileage, the wonderful friends I had made, and my synchronized skating team, UMSST. Looking back on my 5 years, and seeing that these "first impressions" led to a research position with one of my professors, building and racing an electric car that got 4,500 MPGe, becoming friends with former GSIs, professors, lab-mates, & teammates, and winning 2 national collegiate skating titles, I realized that maybe that statement wasn't so crazy after all. I started to experience the reality of being an ME student in my first year at UM, and the encounters and involvement I initially had continued to evolve and shape my career path into something I'm excited to pursue! Alumni News & Newsletter August 2018 ME Alumni Newsletter Do you have an alumni news item for publication on our website or in our Annual Report? Send your news items to me-www@umich.edu. Gifts & Accolades Jones Honored with 2019 U-M ME Alumni Merit Award Marshall Jones is a recipient of the University of Michigans (U-M) 2019 Mechanical Engineering (ME) Alumni Merit Award. Jones, who was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2017, has enjoyed an impressive career filled with countless achievements and honors. He currently holds over 50 U.S. patents and 57 foreign patents, is a member of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and had an accomplished 44-year career at GE Global Research in laser technology. In 1982 he initiated research that resulted in a laser beam powerful enough to cut steel, titanium, and nickel-based alloys, and able to weld and drill them at multiple angles. Jones earned his BSE from U-M ME in 1965 and went on to earn his masters and PhD from the University of Massachusetts. Jones spoke fondly of his time at U-M ME when asked to reflect on it in recognition of the Departments 150th anniversary in 2018. Within ME, I truly loved design, as well as the mechanics and materials of all lab work. U-M MEs design training led to my first job in high energy physics at Brookhaven National Labs and that same training provided a great foundation for my grad studies at UMass, opening the door to my 44-year career at GE Global Research in laser technology. See previous alumni merit award recipients. Vozar Honored with 2018 Michigan Engineering Outstanding Recent Alumni Award Mechanical Engineering alumna Katherine Avery Vozar has been selected to receive the 2018 University of Michigan Engineering Outstanding Recent Alumni Award. Vozar (MSE 11, PhD, 16) is currently a Technology Integration Lead at Ford Motor Company, where her work is dedicated to integration emerging technology into forward model year vehicles, and accelerating systems-based, cross-functional development and implementation of relevant technologies sourced from multiple industries. Vozar also brought her unique vision and experience to assist as a Corporate-Partner-in-Residence at Techstars Mobility, a Detroit-based startup accelerator focused on funding companies with a novel approach to transportation, including (but not limited to) autonomous, connected, shared and electric vehicles. Vozar has written more than 20 peer-reviewed articles and holds multiple patents, has co- advised doctoral students with faculty from around the world and has provided technical and project leadership on multiple government-funded multi-institution research collaborations. Giving back to her community is another passion of Vozars. As an alum, she became a member of the Michigan Engineering Alumni Board and a founding member of the Advisory Board for the Michigan Engineering Zone in Detroit, an innovation space where Detroit students acquire the knowledge and tools they need to propel themselves to higher education and careers in STEM. She also co-founded The Trending Up Foundation, which endeavors to raise awareness and accessibility of STEM careers for K-12 students from historically excluded groups through hands-on workshops, classes and scholarship opportunities. Peter K. Schoenfeld Scholarship Fund endowed Franziska I. Schoenfeld (AB 53, DDS 55) has made a gift to endow the Peter K. Schoenfeld Scholarship Fund. Established in honor of her son, Michigan Engineering alumnus Peter K. Schoenfeld (BSE ME 98), the fund will provide need-based scholarship support to undergraduate students in the Department of Mechanical Engineering who are residents of the state of Michigan. Preference will be given to transfer students, either from other academic units within the University or from outside the University, and students who are United States citizens or permanent residents of the U.S. After graduating with her DDS in 1955, Dr. Schoenfeld owned and operated a general dentistry practice for 30 years, retiring in 1985. After her retirement, she served as a dental editor for the Michigan Dental Association Journal, authoring and editing dental articles and dentist profiles. Ken Snodgrass (BSME 69, MSE 71) - 2014 Distinguished Alumni Service Award ME Alum Ken Snodgrass (BSME 69 and MSE 71) Receives 2014 Distinguished Alumni Service Award Ken Snodgrass is a mechanical engineer, automotive professional, and co-founder of the Michigan Engineering Zone (MEZ) in Detroit. After graduating from the University of Michigan College of Engineering (BSME 69 and MSE 71), Ken accepted a position in Light Truck Engineering at Ford Motor Company where he would work for 30 years in a wide variety of management positions in product development including international assignments and joint programs with various Asian and European auto manufacturers. Tanase Scholarship Fund Theodore T. Tanase (BSE ME 63) and Priscilla B. Tanase of Seattle, Washington, with a $100,000 gift, have endowed the Theodore and Priscilla Tanase Scholarship Fund to provide need-based support to full-time undergraduates at the College of Engineering. They desire that first preference be given to students from the State of Hawaii, followed by the State of Washington. Ted is the founder of Ensocare, which provides web-based care coordination solutions to help manage patient care transitions, reduce length of stay and reduce readmissions. Priscilla enjoyed an early career in the fitness industry, and more recently as a family therapist. Sheri Sheppard (PhD 85) - 2014 U.S. Professor of the Year Sheppard is a Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Stanford University. The U.S. Professors of the Year program salutes the most outstanding undergraduate instructors in the countrythose who excel in teaching and positively influence the lives and careers of students. Sponsored by CASE and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, it is the only national program to recognize excellence in undergraduate teaching and mentoring. In her role at Stanford, Sheppard teaches a wide range of undergraduate and graduate mechanics courses, courses on teaching and workshops on professional development. She also advises new lecturers and tenure-line faculty on their course design, serving as a faculty sponsor on several of those courses. Support your department Alumni generosity is vital to Department of Mechanical Engineering's success and excellence. Donations to ME help support undergraduate and graduate financial aid, building and renovation projects, and the ME Endowment Fund. Giving is easy with our online giving form. Mechanical Engineering Homepage G.G. Brown Laboratory 2350 Hayward Ann Arbor MI 48109 Phone: (734) 764-2694 Fax: (734) 647-9379 Engineering Homepage About Research Academics Admissions Departments Giving Connect with us ME LinkedIn ME Facebook ME Youtube ME Instagram ME Flickr ME Twitter 2020 The Regents of the University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA | Non-Discrimination Policy | Campus Safety | U-M Home
