Faculty Positions | Mechanical Engineering Skip to main content Mechanical Engineering Search Search Toggle navigation Search Search Main navigation Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Application Requirements Change of Program Applicants Dual Degree Applicants SUGS/JI-SUGS Applicants Financial Information Information for Incoming Students Reinstatement/Readmission About Welcome from the Chair History Maps & Directions Honors & Awards Trends & Statistics Contact Giving Positions at ME Faculty Positions Academics Undergraduate Undergrad Handbook RISE (Research Projects) ME Undergrad Symposium Capstone Design (ME 450) SURE (Summer Research) Graduate Graduate Handbook Independent Research (ME 590) ME Courses Advising Appointments Contact Academic Services Research Research Areas Biomechanics & Biosystems Control Design Dynamics & Vibration Energy Fluids Manufacturing Mechanics & Materials Mechatronics & Robotics Micro/Nano Engineering Mobility, Automotive, & Transportation Multi-Scale Computation Thermal Sciences Labs & Facilities People Administration Faculty Staff Research Fellows Graduate Students PhD Students Student Groups Alumni External Advisory Board News & Events News Events Seminar Series Publications Newsletter Quicklinks CoE Safety ME Annual Report ME Undergrad Brochure ME Grad Brochure ME Seminar Series Giving Maps & Directions Contact Student Intranet Faculty/Staff Intranet Main navigation Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Application Requirements Change of Program Applicants Dual Degree Applicants SUGS/JI-SUGS Applicants Financial Information Information for Incoming Students Reinstatement/Readmission About Welcome from the Chair History Maps & Directions Honors & Awards Trends & Statistics Contact Giving Positions at ME Faculty Positions Academics Undergraduate Undergrad Handbook RISE (Research Projects) ME Undergrad Symposium Capstone Design (ME 450) SURE (Summer Research) Graduate Graduate Handbook Independent Research (ME 590) ME Courses Advising Appointments Contact Academic Services Research Research Areas Biomechanics & Biosystems Control Design Dynamics & Vibration Energy Fluids Manufacturing Mechanics & Materials Mechatronics & Robotics Micro/Nano Engineering Mobility, Automotive, & Transportation Multi-Scale Computation Thermal Sciences Labs & Facilities People Administration Faculty Staff Research Fellows Graduate Students PhD Students Student Groups Alumni External Advisory Board News & Events News Events Seminar Series Publications Newsletter Quicklinks CoE Safety ME Annual Report ME Undergrad Brochure ME Grad Brochure ME Seminar Series Giving Maps & Directions Contact Student Intranet Faculty/Staff Intranet Home About Positions at Mechanical Engineering Faculty Positions Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering Announcement of a Faculty Position: 2020-2021 The Department of Mechanical Engineering (ME), University of Michigan (U-M), Ann Arbor, seeks outstanding applicants for full-time, tenured or tenure-track, faculty positions. Underrepresented minorities and women are strongly encouraged to apply. The positions are open for either junior or senior-level appointments. The focus of this search is for candidates working at the intersection of engineering, social justice, or common good, including work that addresses anti-racism, inclusion, equity or other topics. Prior record at this intersection is valued, but not essential for junior applicants. The candidates research, teaching and inclusion statements should define common good or social justice as they apply towards their career goals. Applicants should have an earned Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering or an appropriate field. We seek scholars who will provide inspiration, leadership, and impact in research, teaching, and service. To ensure full consideration, candidates are encouraged to apply now and before December 1, 2020, as applications will be reviewed immediately upon receipt. All applicants should submit, in PDF format: (1) a detailed c.v., (2) statements on research and teaching and contributions to diversity, equity and inclusion (prior and/or proposed work related to the intersection of engineering and social justice or common good can be captured in any or all of these statements), (3) up to three representative publications, and (4) the names and contact information of at least three references. Applications must be submitted electronically at http://me.engin.umich.edu/facultysearch. The University of Michigan is a non-discriminatory/affirmative action employer, and is responsive to the needs of dual career families. The U-M Mechanical Engineering Department is a vibrant, inclusive and collegial community, and we recently celebrated the sesquicentennial anniversary of our department. We are home to 72 tenured/tenure-track faculty, 23 research faculty, almost 500 graduate students (including over 250 Ph.D. students), and over 800 undergraduate students. We are well known for our leadership in core mechanical engineering disciplines as well as in interdisciplinary and emerging areas. The Department is consistently ranked among the top mechanical engineering programs nationally and internationally by the QS World Rankings, U.S. News & World Report, National Research Council Ph.D. Program Assessments, and others. More information about the Department can be found at: http://me.engin.umich.edu/. The University of Michigan has a long and distinguished history. It was founded in 1817, 20 years before the territory became a state, and was one of the first public universities in the nation. Throughout its 200-year history, U-M has maintained the highest levels of education, scholarship, and research. Ann Arbor is a very attractive city, regularly rated as one of the best places to live in the nation. Mechanical Engineering Homepage G.G. Brown Laboratory 2350 Hayward Ann Arbor MI 48109 Phone: (734) 764-2694 Fax: (734) 647-9379 Engineering Homepage About Research Academics Admissions Departments Giving Connect with us ME LinkedIn ME Facebook ME Youtube ME Instagram ME Flickr ME Twitter 2020 The Regents of the University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109 USA | Non-Discrimination Policy | Campus Safety | U-M Home
