Steven Green | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Steven Green You are hereHome People Steven Green People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Education: PhD, California Institute of Technology, 1982 Email: steven-green@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-1612 Lab Phone: (319) 335-1910 Office: 238 Biology Building East 210 Iowa Ave., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Areas Cell and Developmental Biology Neurobiology Research Summary Control of Neuronal Survival and Synaptogenesis by Neural Activity We study molecular and cellular mechanisms by which neuronal survival, neurite growth, and synaptogenesis are regulated by neural activity or membrane depolarization. For studies of survival, we principally use spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) in the cochlea. SGNs are dependent on their presynaptic input, the hair cells, for survival, but the death of SGNs after hair cell loss can be reduced by electrical stimulation. This permits studies of neuronal survival in vivo in parallel to studies of cultured neurons. Our studies of intracellular signaling in SGNs in vivo after loss of hair cells have shown that SGN death occurs in two phases, an early phase associated with loss of prosurvival signaling and a later phase associated with increased proapoptotic or 'stress' signaling. Our studies of cultured SGNs in vitro have dissected the complex intracellular signaling initiated by membrane depolarization using a molecular genetic approach, in which genes encoding mutant activated or inhibitory protein kinases or transcription factors are introduced into the neurons. We have identified the intracellular signaling pathways that mediate the prosurvival effect of membrane depolarization: Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and CaMKIV, and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). We have further determined the subcellular location at which they act and some of their key targets. These studies are relevant to the use of cochlear implants, currently the most effective treatment for sensorineural deafness. These implanted electrode arrays provide direct electrical stimulation to SGNs in hearing impaired people who lack hair cells. Understanding how electrical stimulation affects SGN survival and axon growth will lead to improved implants for treatment of the hearing impaired. The intracellular signals that link neural activity to survival also link neural activity to stabilization and remodeling of synapses. In collaboration with Michael Dailey and his lab, we have observed fluorescently-labeled synapses in brain slices, in which the organization of the neurons, their synaptic interactions, and their associations with glial cells remain intact. We have described the effects of elevated neural activity on synaptic remodeling, which is relevant not only to normal development and maturation of the brain but also to the consequences of epilepsy. Using molecular reagents originally developed for study of neuronal survival, we have demonstrated a role for CaMKII and are also investigating roles of PKA and peptide neurotrophic factors in synaptic remodeling. Shown in the figure is a digitally-captured photograph of three spiral ganglion neurons in culture fluorescently labeled red using an antibody to neurofilament-200 and a red fluorescent secondary antibody. One of these neurons has been transfected with a gene encoding CaMKIV and green fluorescent protein, evident by the green-yellow fluorescence. Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Tuesday, March 10, 2015 - 10:34am. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
