Jeffrey Denburg | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Jeffrey Denburg You are hereHome People Jeffrey Denburg People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Emeritus Education: PhD, Johns Hopkins University, 1970 Email: jeffrey-denburg@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-1050 Lab Phone: (319) 335-1050 Office: 143 Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Research Summary Development and Regeneration of the Nervous System and of Legs We seek to understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms that enable some animals to reform axons within the nervous system after damage and to regenerate entire limbs after removal. The cockroach is used in these experiments because it can rapidly and accurately perform both of these phenomena. Our goal is to test the hypothesis that these regenerative processes in mature animals involve a repeat of events that normally occur during embryonic development. Efforts are initially directed toward the identification of molecules involved in the development of the nervous system and of the legs in embryos. These molecules will subsequently be tested for their roles in regeneration. Hybridoma techniques are used to produce monoclonal antibodies that bind to molecules whose spatial and temporal distributions suggest that they play a role in development. Some of these molecules that are being studied include proteins that are: Distributed in gradients along the path of pioneer axon growth in a manner consistent with them being guidance cues. Present on the surface of embryonic axons but absent from those in mature insects. Present on the surface of epithelial cells that are undergoing any type of morphogenesis. Functions for these molecules can be demonstrated by performing perturbation experiments in which the antibodies are added to a culture medium containing embryos that have been removed from their egg cases. These embryos will normally continue to undergo development for at least 48 hours. If the molecules are involved in development the antibody will block its function and alter the growth of the axons or the segmentation of the leg. Biochemical techniques are used to purify the proteins and study their properties. Molecular biological techniques are used to clone the genes that encode these proteins and to use this information to further manipulate the organism. It is expected that because of the phylogenetic conservation of developmental mechanisms, homologs of these molecules will be found in higher animals where they will perform similar functions. The question remains as to why some organisms, like the cockroach, can use these same molecules again during regeneration whereas others, like humans cannot. Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Thursday, June 25, 2015 - 3:51pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
