Bryant McAllister | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Bryant McAllister You are hereHome People Bryant McAllister People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Associate Professor Director, Biomedical Sciences Program Education: PhD, University of Rochester, 1996 Email: bryant-mcallister@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-2604 Lab Phone: (319) 335-1100 Office: 222 Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Lab Website: http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/mcallister/ Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Areas Evolution Genetics Research Summary Evolutionary Genetics and Genome Evolution My research interests are in the field of evolutionary genetics, especially understanding processes occurring through or influenced by genome-level mechanisms. Active research projects in the lab use flies in the genus Drosophila for empirical studies combining molecular, cytological, and genetic approaches. Three primary research areas are currently being pursued in the lab: 1) identifying the role of chromosomal rearrangements in facilitating adaptive evolution, 2) determining the consequences of sex-linked transmission, and 3) defining common pathways of sex-chromosome evolution. Changes in chromosomal arrangement are common, but their significance is unknown. We are currently examining how natural selection influences a chromosomal rearrangement involving a centromeric fusion of the X chromosome and an autosome in Drosophila americana (see figure). This derived arrangement coexists with the ancestral arrangement, and their frequencies exhibit a strong latitudinal cline in the central and eastern US. Through integrated studies of chromosomal and nucleotide variation, we are examining a long-standing hypothesis that modification of crossing over between alternative chromosomal arrangements coordinates adaptive genetic variants. Our projects on sex chromosomes are focused on understanding both primary and secondary mechanisms of change during the emergence of this unique chromosomal pair following their acquisition of the primary sex-determining locus. This transition from autosomal pair to sex-chromosome pair is well documentedmostly using plant and vertebrate systems, including humans. One line of research capitalizes on the very recent occurrence of the X-Autosome fusion in D. americana to examine the initial causes of divergence between a chromosomal pair experiencing sex-linked transmission. Current results demonstrate that divergence is driven by selection, and quite surprisingly, optimization of female fitness at a cost to male fitness may be the underlying mechanism. We are also investigating other Drosophila species with similar rearrangements involving the sex chromosomes. These comparative analyses provide a framework for identifying common features in the transition from autosome to sex chromosome, such as determining how genes on the Y chromosome are silenced, defining the relationship between functional degeneration on the Y and dosage compensation on the X, and estimating the temporal dynamics of this transition. Keywords: Sex chromosome evolution, maintenance of chromosomal variation, and molecular population genetics using Drosophila as a model Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Wednesday, July 4, 2018 - 2:40pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
