Jim (Jung-Ching) Lin | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Jim (Jung-Ching) Lin You are hereHome People Jim (Jung-Ching) Lin People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Emeritus Education: PhD, University of Connecticut Health Center, 1979 Email: jim-lin@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-1050 Office: 007 Biology Building East 210 East Iowa Ave., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Summary Cardiac Development and Function Roles of Xin Repeat-Containing Proteins in Cardiac Development, Function, and Disease Since the discovery of Xin repeat-containing proteins from my laboratory in 1996, the importance of Xin proteins in cardiac development, function, and disease has been continuously implicated. Diverse vertebrates including mammals possess two paralogous genes, Xin (or Xirp1) and Xin (or Xirp2). The majority of Xin proteins are localized to intercalated discs (ICDs) of the heart. Ablation of the mouse Xin (mXin) leads to progressive ICD-structural defects, cardiomyopathy, and conduction defects. In mXin-deficient mice, the mouse Xin (mXin) is up-regulated at both message and protein levels. Complete loss of mXin results in the failure of forming mature ICDs and the mis-localization but no up-regulation of mXin, suggesting a functional hierarchy between mXin and mXin. The mXin-null mice show abnormal heart shape, ventricular septal defects, severe growth retardation and postnatal lethality. Our evolutionary studies reveal that emergency of Xin repeat-containing proteins coincides with the genesis of true chamber heart. This together with ICD-structural defects seen in adult mXin-deficient hearts and with abnormal heart shape/ventricular septal defects detected in mXin-null hearts suggest that Xin proteins could play vital roles in heart chamber formation. Toward this end, we have used yeast two hybrid system, co-transfection and co-immnuoprecipitation to identify and characterize many mXin-interacting proteins. We have previously shown that mXin interacts with -catnin, p120-catenin, and actin filaments, and likely regulates the N-cadherin-mediated adhesion at ICD. The cadherin engagement is known to activate Rac1 through c-Src-PI3K-Vav2 (a guanine nucleotide exchange factor capable of binding to p120-catenin) pathway. Consistently, the loss of mXin fails to form ICD and down-regulates the activities of Rac1, IGF-1 receptor, Akt, Erk1/2, and cytokine receptor. We have further shown that mXin interacts with Kv channel interacting protein 2 (KChIP2, an auxiliary subunit of Ito,f), filamin, cortactin, and Kcne2 (a -subunit of Ik,slow1), and modulates the surface expressions of transient outward K+ channel (Ito,f) and the delayed outward K+ rectifier (Ik,slow1), both of which are critical components for defining action potential waveform. Thus, mXin and mXin may act as scaffolding proteins to modulate various receptor/channel activities and signaling. In addition to characterizing more mXin-interacting proteins, we will use bioinformatics (biomart) analyses in collaboration with Dr. Albert Erives to systematically identify mXin co-originated/co-evolved partners that play roles in chamber formation and function. Interestingly, we have also found that the left atrial-pulmonary vein tissues prepared from mXin-null hearts blunt isoproterenol-treated, pacing-induced atrial fibrillation, in contrast to tissues prepared from wild type hearts. The mXin-deficient mice may provide a good opportunity to identify pathway involving in the pacing-induced atrial fibrillation. Studies with a second mXin allele mouse line with knock-in lacZ reporter have revealed that mXin is enriched in atria and conduction system, which may account for our preliminary observation of conduction defects in mXin-null mice. We will characterize molecular changes in cardiac conduction system and electrophysiological remodeling of mXin-null hearts. Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Thursday, August 15, 2019 - 11:54pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
