Robert Malone | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Robert Malone You are hereHome People Robert Malone People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Emeritus Education: PhD, University of Oregon, 1976 Email: robert-malone@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-1112 Office: 143 Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Summary Chromosome behavior in meiosis Chromosomes undergo several special events during meiosis, the process wherein chromosome number is reduced from diploid to haploid ( to form sperm, pollen, eggs, spores, etc.). The first unique chromosomal event is genetic recombination and homologous chromosome pairing. The second unique event, the reductional division, segregates the two paired homologous chromosomes to opposite poles. We are answering three major questions about chromosomes in meiosis utilizing genetics, molecular biology, microscopy, and protein biochemistry. First, we are asking how meiotic recombination initiates. Specifically, we are asking how the 10-12 gene products required interact with each other to form an initiation complex; in concept this complex is analogous to the complexes that initiate DNA replication. We have begun to define interactions between proteins that are only made in meiosis, and whose only role is to initiate recombination by making breaks. Second, in collaboration with John Logsdon's group, we are asking if meiotic functions involved in recombination and the reductional division present in other organisms have conserved functions. Logsdon's analysis strongly suggests that meiosis evolved very early during the evolution of eukaryotes, perhaps simultaneously. The conclusion would be strengthened by finding that genes in other eukaryotes had retained function. We have devised expression vectors and assay systems to detect meiotic function of conserved genes that are sensitive over a 200 fold range. Third, we have discovered that the initiation of recombination somehow signals the reductional division so that it delays until the proper time. This communication is an intracellular signal transduction process. We have determined that 8 of the 10 initiation genes are required for this signal. In addition, 2 genes involved in the special meiotic recombination structure, the synaptonemal complex, are also required for the normal delay. We are now asking how the cell detects the initiation signal, if their assembly on the chromatin is the signal, and how the signal is transduced to create the proper delay of the division. We have identified one of the targets of the signal, a major transcriptional regulator of middle meiotic genes. We are also looking for mutants that cannot carry out the proper communication between recombination initiation and the first division, in order to define the components involved in the event. Keywords: Chromosomes, DNA, recombination, replication, segregation. Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Thursday, August 15, 2019 - 11:57pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
