Diane Slusarski | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Diane Slusarski You are hereHome People Diane Slusarski People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor and Departmental Executive Officer (DEO)/Chair Education: PhD, Northwestern University, 1993 Email: diane-slusarski@uiowa.edu Phone: Administrative Office: (319) 353-2969 Lab Phone: Lab Office: (319) 335-3229 and Lab Phone: (319) 335-3997 Office: Admin Office: 143 Biology Building and Lab Office: 246A Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Lab Website: https://slusarski.lab.uiowa.edu/ Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Areas Cell and Developmental Biology Genetics Research Summary Signal Transduction Mechanisms in Vertebrate Development and Disease Featured Papers of Graduate Students:Text would go here for graduate student publications Research Description: Development from a single cell to a multicellular organism requires a dynamic interaction of signal transduction networks. The continuous exchange of information between cells through both contact and diffusible molecules influences gene expression and cell behavior. Our research focuses on cell-cell signaling events that lead to intracellular calcium release. We integrate in vivo image analysis coupled with molecular-genetic tools to elucidate the role of calcium-dependent signaling networks critical in developmental processes such as body plan formation and organogenesis in the zebrafish. The zebrafish (danio rerio) model system for vertebrate developmental biology has many attributes including genetics, rapid development and translucent embryos. We defined a class of Wnt signaling ligands that modulate intracellular calcium release and are investigating the mechanisms by which this Wnt/calcium class mediates its biological effect on the developing embryo. In zebrafish, the Wnt-5 product is maternally required and loss of Wnt-5 of function results in decreased activity of calcium-dependent regulatory pathways and as a consequence, increased -catenin signaling. Later-stage calcium manipulation results in increased nuclear -catenin and perturbation of organ laterality and vascularization. As inappropriate Wnt signaling has been associated with a high frequency of tumors, we are also investigating spontaneous tumor formation in genetic backgrounds that disrupt the function of Wnt/calcium class ligands. Additionally, we have determined that the calcium release requires G-protein signaling. To identify potential intracellular regulators of calcium release dynamics, we are characterizing members of the regulators of G-protein signaling protein family. We have cloned and characterized a few members of the RGS family and find they have essential roles in sensory neuron and somite patterning. Due to the remarkable conservation of developmental processes and mechanisms among vertebrates, we also use zebrafish as a model for human disease and test candidate genes. Keywords: Wnt/calcium Signaling in Development, Organogensis, Neural Patterning and Disease using the Zebrafish Model System Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Monday, May 18, 2020 - 10:29am. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
