Chun-Fang Wu | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Chun-Fang Wu You are hereHome People Chun-Fang Wu People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Education: PhD, Purdue University, 1976 Email: chun-fang-wu@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-1091 Lab Phone: (319) 335-1084 Office: 239A Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Areas Genetics Neurobiology Research Summary Neurogenetics of Drosophila The long-term research goals in the Wu lab concern the genetic framework underlying nervous system function and behavior in the context of nature-nurture interactions. Our research involves analyses at difference levels in Drosophila with a combination of electrophysiological, anatomical, cell biological, genetic and behavioral techniques. Currently, our research topics center around neuronal, behavioral, and lifespan plasticity in Drosophila. We focus on mutants with altered nerve excitability and deficiencies in learning behavior. Identified neurons and neural circuits in mutants and transgenic flies are analyzed for synaptic and ion channel mechanisms underlying nerve activity patterns associated with distinct behavioral modifications. Genetic mosaics are also constructed to analyze the behavioral and physiological consequences of altering different parts of the neural circuits involved in specific behavioral tasks. These approaches also provide insights into developmental plasticity and homeostatic regulation under environmental stresses throughout the lifespan. A major emphasis of current research concerns the importance of social interactions in protecting against age-related functional decline and neurodegenerative disorders. We found that the short-lived Superoxide Dismutase (Sod) mutant flies could double their lifespan when co-housed with young, active helper flies of a different genotype. This co-housing also improves Sod flies stress resistance and motor coordination. We are investigating the nature of the interactions to unravel the underlying molecular mechanisms and networks of interacting genes that confer the beneficial effects. Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Thursday, July 4, 2019 - 10:39pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
