Anna Malkova | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Anna Malkova You are hereHome People Anna Malkova People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Education: PhD, St. Petersburg State University (Russia), 1993 Email: anna-malkova@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 384-1285 Lab Phone: (319) 384-1274 Office: 331 Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Areas Genetics Research Summary Repair of double-strand breaks (DSB): Break-Induced Replication (BIR) The work in our lab is aimed on investigation of the mechanisms of double-strand break (DSB) repair. DSB is the most lethal form of DNA damage, and we would like to unravel their role in genome destabilization. In particular, we are interested in how imprecise or faulty repair of DSBs leads to structural genomic variations including mutations, copy number variations (CNVs) and chromosomal rearrangements similar to those that cause genetic diseases and cancer in humans. Our research is focused on one particular pathway of DSB repair called Break-Induced Replication (BIR). BIR is the main pathway to repair broken chromosomes containing only one repairable end, which can result from the collapse of a replication fork or from telomere erosion. Importantly, BIR plays a significant role at the onset of carcinogenesis, when cells undergo a massive collapse of replication forks, and which are repaired by BIR. We are using sensitive genetic assays, direct physical methods and genomic approach to unravel the mechanisms of genetic instabilities resulting from BIR, and the effects of various environmental factors in the development of such instabilities. Our recent results obtained in yeast demonstrated that BIR drastically differs from S-phase DNA replications as BIR is carried by a migrating bubble, resulting in conservative inheritance of newly synthesized DNA. Identification of this molecular mechanism that has been published in the journal of Nature in September 2013 served as a first step towards our understanding of genetic instabilities resulting from BIR. However, many details of the mechanism of BIR responsible for its destabilizing effects, as well as its role in promoting genetic instabilities leading to cancer remain unclear. We aim to fill these gaps in our knowledge by investigating BIR in yeast and eventually in humans. In addition, we use our knowledge obtained in yeast to analyze human cancer genome databases to determine the role of BIR in promoting genomic instabilities leading to cancer. AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Monday, August 12, 2019 - 3:31pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
