John Logsdon | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources John Logsdon You are hereHome People John Logsdon People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Associate Professor Education: PhD, Indiana University, 1995 Email: john-logsdon@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-1082 Lab Phone: (319) 335-1083 Office: 310 Biology Building 129 East Jefferson St., Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 Lab Website: http://euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu/ Google Scholar Link: Publications Research Areas Evolution Genetics Research Summary Evolutionary Molecular Genetics My research interests are generally in the molecular genetic aspects of evolution with a focus on the origin and early evolution of eukaryotes and their genomes, and how they differ from prokaryotes. My laboratory has a clear evolutionary emphasis, combining experimental molecular biology and computer-based bioinformatic approaches, along with a phylogenetic framework and the comparative method. In particular, we are studying two main problems: The origin and evolution of meiosis, sex, and recombination using comparative molecular genetic approaches. The evolutionary relationships among diverse eukaryotes--mainly protists--using protein gene phylogenies. The genes with which we initiated our studies of meiosis are eukaryotic homologs of the bacterial recombination protein recA, in yeast called Rad51 and Dmc1. The Dmc1 gene encodes a meiosis-specific version of the recombinase. We have been expanding this comparative study to include additional genes involved in other aspects of meiosis, including those genes also implicated in various aspects of DNA repair. We have determined the evolutionary history of these genes in a wide diversity of eukaryotes and are using these genes to trace the evolution of meiosis itself. For the studies of eukaryotic phylogeny per se, we are using conserved protein coding genes, including the RNA polymerase II large subunits, to investigate the thorny question of "deep branching" eukaryotes. The phylogenetic tree of eukaryotes that is emerging will provide a critical framework for making appropriate evolutionary comparisons among eukaryotic species, genomes and genes. Ongoing long-term interests are in the origins and evolution of introns and splicing and lateral (or horizontal) gene transfer, with a focus on its prevalence and impact on genome evolution and phylogenetic reconstruction. Keywords: Origin and evolution of meiosis & sex, Molecular phylogeny of eukaryotes, Genome evolution, Lateral gene transfer, Intron evolution Selected Images AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Tuesday, March 10, 2015 - 10:41am. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
