Mark Blumberg | Biology The University of Iowa Alumni Make a Gift Search Skip to main content College of Liberal Arts & SciencesHome About Departments & Divisions For Students For Faculty Deans Office Biology Biology Main Navigation HomeAboutPeopleUndergraduate ProgramiBio Grad ProgramResearchFacilitiesResources Mark Blumberg You are hereHome People Mark Blumberg People Departmental Governance People FacultyView All Faculty Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Instructional Track Faculty Joint Appointments Visiting Professors Emeritus Faculty Graduate StudentsView All Graduate Students iBio PhDs iBio Masters Interdisciplinary PhDs Administrative Staff Instructional Staff Postdoctoral Research Scholars Research Staff Professor Email: mark-blumberg@uiowa.edu Phone: (319) 335-2424 Office: E234 SSH Research Areas Neurobiology Research Summary Developmental Behavioral Neuroscience Sleep, like waking, is a complex phenomenon comprising fluctuations in many neural and physiological systems. When we fall asleep, our skeletal muscle loses tone, the electrical activity in our cerebral cortex (i.e., the EEG) changes, and, during active sleep, our eyes dart around and our limbs twitch. The challenge of studying infant sleep is that these various components, which have been studied extensively in adults, do not always present themselves clearly in infants. For example, the EEG of infant rats before eleven days of age does not exhibit the clearly differentiable activity upon which researchers rely so heaviliy when judging adult sleep. These and other factors mean that we must assess infant sleep on its own terms rather than judge it against an adult standard. This is a central tenet of infant research, and one that we forget at our peril. One of the goals of our research is to identify the role that sleep plays in the development of the nervous system. We view sleep as essential to the process by which sensory and motor systems establish the topographic relations (or somatotopic maps) that make normal function possible. This process is particularly critical during early development but also continues throughout life. We believe that sleep, especially active sleep, is critical to this process because it provides a period of relative quiescence when discrete signals can be sent and received by the nervous system. Perhaps the most interesting developmental changes in sleep and wakefulness relate to the temporal organization of these states. For example, we have documented seminal developmental changes in the temporal organization of sleep-wake bouts and are seeking to identify the neural mechanisms that underlie these developmental changes in Norway rats. Developmental analyses can also be helpful for exploring evolutionary issues pertaining to sleep-wake organization. We are currently adopting a developmental comparative approach to understand circadian rhythmicity using nocturnal (i.e., night-active) Norway rats and diurnal (i.e., day-active) Nile grass rats. By tracking the development of sleep and wakefulness across early development and exploring their neural control, we are identifying the key components that have been evolutionarily altered to produce the phenotypes associated with these different species. Over the coming years we hope to expand this approach to different questions and species. AccessibilityThis page was last updated on Monday, June 23, 2014 - 12:43pm. Please contact us at biology@uiowa.edu or 319-335-1050 if you need further information. Department of Biology143 Biology Building129 E. Jefferson St.Iowa City, Iowa 52242-1324 319-335-1050 319-335-1069 biology@uiowa.edu Login Stay Connected FacebookTwitter Give to Biology NOTICE: The University of Iowa Center for Advancement is an operational name for the State University of Iowa Foundation, an independent, Iowa nonprofit corporation organized as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt, publicly supported charitable entity working to advance the University of Iowa. Please review its full disclosure statement. Privacy Information Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Statement 2020 The University of Iowa
