Outstanding Nuclear Engineers 2019 - Nuclear Engineering - Purdue University Outstanding Nuclear Engineers 2019 - Nuclear Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Main Menu Main Menu Search Purdue Engineering NE For You For You Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends About Us About Us Welcome Mission and Vision Our Reactor Safety Annual Newsletter The "barn" Chronicles Events Contact Our People Our People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Advisory Board Student Organizations Outstanding Nuclear Engineers Academics Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Nuclear Engineering Accreditation (ABET) Information Scholarships and Fellowships Internships and Co-Ops Seminars Research/Facilities Giving Giving Why Give to Nuclear Engineering? Donate to the School of Nuclear Engineering Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Nuclear Engineering Purdue Engineering NE Our People Outstanding Nuclear Engineers 2019 Outstanding Nuclear Engineers 2019 Timothy K. Hanley B.S. NE 1987 Senior Vice President, Operations Support Exelon Generation Hanley is currently the Senior Vice President, Operations Support at Exelon Generation. He is responsible for the corporate functional areas that provide governance and oversight to the 23 reactors in the Exelon fleet. He is also the Chairman of the Executive Oversight Committee in BWR Owners Group and serves as a member of the Nuclear Engineering Advisory Board of Purdue University. Prior to his current role, Hanley was Exelon Nuclear's operations lead on matters related to public policy issues associated with nuclear plant operations. He works closely with Exelon's Government & Regulatory Affairs and Public Policy group, providing his operational knowledge and expertise on various current and future public policy issues related to nuclear operations and the value of nuclear energy. Previously, Hanley was Senior Vice President, West Operations. He was responsible for Exelon Generation's Dresden and Quad Cities stations and had executive oversight for the Fort Calhoun Nuclear Station, which Exelon operates but is owned by the Omaha Public Power District. Previously, he held the positions of Site Vice President at Quad Cities and Site Vice President and Plant Manager at Dresden. He also served as the director of engineering at Dresden and director of Midwest operations in Warrenville, Illinois. His career has mainly been spent in roles of increasing responsibility at Quad Cities. Hanley received the BS degree in nuclear engineering from Purdue University in 1987. He also holds a master of business administration from St. Ambrose University in Davenport, Iowa. He obtained his senior reactor operator license at Quad Cities. In recognition of his outstanding accomplishments in nuclear industry, visionary leadership, and remarkable contributions to nuclear power engineering. The School of Nuclear Engineering is proud to present 2019 Outstanding Nuclear Engineers Award to Mr. Timothy Hanley. Years 2019 2018 2017 Our People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Advisory Board Student Organizations Outstanding Nuclear Engineers Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2020 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact Office of Marketing and Media for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ne@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
