Mark S. Shephard | Faculty at Rensselaer Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search rensselaer polytechnic institute Faculty Directory Academic Schools and Departments Research Centers You are hereHome Mark S. Shephard Samuel A. Johnson '37 and Elizabeth C. Johnson Professor of Engineering., Mechanical Aerospace and Nuclear Engineering Mark S. Shephards professional activities have focused on technologies to improve the reliability and level of automation of advanced numerical simulations to support their effective application by engineers and scientist. His research activities have lead to well recognized and applied contributions on the areas of automatic mesh generation of CAD geometry, automated and adaptive analysis methods, and parallel adaptive simulation technologies. This research has been supported by both government agencies (over 65 research grants from 13 agencies) and industry (funding from 44 companies). Dr. Shephard has published over 250 papers and graduated 24 Ph.Ds. As part of his professional activities Mark S. Shephard founded Rensselaer's Scientific Computation Research Center that has brought together faculty form seven academic departments and three schools at Rensselaer to perform research on the development and application of advanced simulation technologies. These research activities have included collaborations with more that ten other universities over the past decade. Mark S. Shephard is a co-founder, board member and technical advisor to Simmetrix Inc., a computer-aided engineering company dedicated to producing the technologies and associated software components to enable simulation-based engineering. Simmetrix is currently researching, developing and providing advanced simulation automation and simulation-based design technologies to CAE and Fortune 500 companies, and universities. Education Ph.D. Cornell University Research Focus Finite Element AnalysisComputer GraphicsComputer-Aided Design Contact Information shephm@rpi.edu http://www.scorec.rpi.edu/ Select Works See http://www.scorec.rpi.edu/reports/ Search for Faculty: or Search by Research Focus: 110 Eighth Street Troy, NY USA 12180 (518) 276-6000 FOLLOW US SCHOOLS & PROGRAMS Architecture Business Engineering Humanities, Arts, & Social Sciences IT & Web Science Science Research RPI CONNECTIONS Admissions Alumni/ae & Friends Athletics Human Resources Library RPInfo Strategic Communications Veterans ENGAGE Apply Now Contact Us Give to Rensselaer Visit Campus Send Feedback Copyright Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) Media Policy | Web Privacy Policy | Student Consumer Information | Title IX Policy | Accessibility
