Mohammed Alnaggar | Faculty at Rensselaer Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search rensselaer polytechnic institute Faculty Directory Academic Schools and Departments Research Centers You are hereHome Mohammed Alnaggar Assistant Professor, Civil and Environmental Engineering The nations deteriorating infrastructures are the core subject of Dr. Alnaggars research. His experience covers a wide range of research topics spanning from detailed material constitutive modeling to large structural scale applications that include: meso-scale and macro-scale modeling of quasi-brittle materials; physical and chemical modeling of aging and deterioration effects on materials including shrinkage, creep, thermal and Alkali-Silica reaction effects; fracture mechanics; continuum mechanics; nonlinear constitutive modeling of materials; analysis of cable supported structures and high rise buildings; neural networks; control of structures; and automatic parameter identification. Dr. Alnaggar is mainly interested in aging and deterioration of concrete material and infrastructures. His research combines state of the art physics based constitutive models that simulate the effect of a multitude of physical and chemo-physical phenomena on concrete aging and deterioration. He applies state of the art physics based computational mechanics techniques to model aging and deterioration both at the fine mesoscale and macroscopic scale using both discrete and continuum models. His recently published paper on alkali silica reaction has drawn considerable attention in the technical community and enabled collaboration in multiple projects within and outside his CEE department at Northwestern University where he got his PhD. Prior to his PhD studies, for his master, he developed a novel approach to compensate time delay in active control of seismically excited structures using Neural Networks. He currently plans to assess and simulate the response of aging infrastructures and their response to severe loading conditions including fire, impact, blast, wind and earthquakes. This will be achieved by building rigorous physically-based models that can predict materials strength degradation over time. The formulations will start at the fine scale (including nano/micro/meso scales) as needed for a good understanding of the initiation and progression of damage. Then, the results obtained at small scale will be used to enhance the capabilities of macroscopic continuum models to simulate structural performance. He also has a strong teaching background. For him, engineers are the optimizers of the world and so they deserve a special consideration when taught, in both curricular content and methods of teaching. In Egypt, he was responsible for developing and teaching two elective courses for the senior undergraduate students on High Rise Building Design and Computer Aided Design of Structures. he was also trained on 6 leadership courses for excellence in research and teaching in Egypt. In addition, he had 8 years of part time exposure to the profession, in which he designed a wide range of structures including stadiums, steel bridges and especially high-rise buildings in the Gulf area. Such an experience had a big impact on his teaching capabilities and philosophy. Education Ph.D., Northwestern University, Structural Engineering M.Sc., Zagazig University, Structural Engineering B.Sc. Zagazig University Civil Engineering Contact Information alnagm2@rpi.edu www.cee.rpi.edu Select Works 1. M. Alnaggar, G. Cusatis, J. Qu, and M. Liu, Simulating Acoustic Nonlinearity Change in Accelerated Mortar Bar Tests: A discrete Meso-Scale Approach, Proceedings of Fourth International Symposium on Life-Cycle Civil Engineering IALCCE 2014 November 16-19, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan (accepted)2. G. Cusatis, M. Alnaggar, and R. Rezakhani, Multiscale Modeling Of Alkali Silica Reaction Degradation Of Concrete, Proceedings of RILEM International Symposium on Concrete Modelling, CONMOD 2014, October 12-14, Tsinghua University, Beijin, China (accepted)3. G. Cusatis, R. Rezakhani, M. Alnaggar, X. Zhou and D. Pelessone, Multiscale computational models for the simulation of concrete materials and structures. Computational Modeling of Concrete Structures - Proceedings of EURO-C 2014. 2014;1:23-38.4. M. Alnaggar, G. Cusatis and G. Di Luzio, Lattice Discrete Particle Modeling (LDPM) Of Alkali Silica Reaction (ASR) Deterioration Of Concrete Structures. Cement and Concrete Composites (41), 45-59, 2013. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S09589465130008025. M. Alnaggar, G. Cusatis. Automatic Parameter Identification Of Discrete Mesoscale Models With Application To The Coarse-Grained Simulation Of Reinforced Concrete Structures, ASCE Structures Congress 2012, 20th Analysis and Computation Specialty Conference proceedings, Chicago, IL, March 29-31, 2012, 406-417. http://dx.doi.org/10.1061/9780784412374.0366. S. Abdel Salam, H. Soliman, A.E. Bakeri and M. Alnaggar. Compensation of Time Delay Effect in Active Controlled MDOF Structures Using Neural Networks, Journal of American Science, 8(7):717-724. http://www.jofamericanscience.org/journals/am-sci/am0807/106_9774am0807_717_724.pdf Search for Faculty: or Search by Research Focus: 110 Eighth Street Troy, NY USA 12180 (518) 276-6000 FOLLOW US SCHOOLS & PROGRAMS Architecture Business Engineering Humanities, Arts, & Social Sciences IT & Web Science Science Research RPI CONNECTIONS Admissions Alumni/ae & Friends Athletics Human Resources Library RPInfo Strategic Communications Veterans ENGAGE Apply Now Contact Us Give to Rensselaer Visit Campus Send Feedback Copyright Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) Media Policy | Web Privacy Policy | Student Consumer Information | Title IX Policy | Accessibility
