John M. Reilly | Faculty at Rensselaer Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Search rensselaer polytechnic institute Faculty Directory Academic Schools and Departments Research Centers You are hereHome John M. Reilly Professor of Practice, Civil and Environmental Engineering Dr. Reilly has had over 35 years experience inthe design, management and operations of transportation systems. He was Deputy Executive Director of the Capital District Transportation Authority, a regional transportation operating agency with a fixed route bus and paratransit fleet, regional Medial brokerage and two railroad passenger terminals. His primary areas of responsibility include: capital project planning and development, grant and contact administration, service and cooperate planning, information technology, service contracting and facility management. He managed development of a new passenger rail station at Rensselaer (NY), the 10th busiest Amtrak station in the country. His responsibility included supervision of design, arranging tenant leases, developing plans for property management and financial management. He is currently the project manager for a World Bank project on methods of measuring transit service capacity and quality in developing countries. He is also an advisor to the World Bank on Transit Intelligent Transportation System Project in several cities in China and India. He directed transportation related studies, particularly in the area of transit data management and operations analysis (rail and bus) for a number of transit systems including the Denver Regional Transit District, Ann Arbor Transportation Authority, Charlotte Area Transit System, Southeastern Michigan Council of Governments, Santa Cruz Transportation Authority, AC Transit, Metropolitan Transit System (San Diego), PACE, (suburban Chicago), Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority New York State Department of Transportation. He was a consultant to New York State Senate High Speed Rail Task Force. He is a c0-principal investigator for a park and ride facility study in New York City and a study of using automatic vehicle location system data to improve time management for the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies. Education B.S., M. Eng., Ph.D., Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Contact Information reillj2@rpi.edu Search for Faculty: or Search by Research Focus: 110 Eighth Street Troy, NY USA 12180 (518) 276-6000 FOLLOW US SCHOOLS & PROGRAMS Architecture Business Engineering Humanities, Arts, & Social Sciences IT & Web Science Science Research RPI CONNECTIONS Admissions Alumni/ae & Friends Athletics Human Resources Library RPInfo Strategic Communications Veterans ENGAGE Apply Now Contact Us Give to Rensselaer Visit Campus Send Feedback Copyright Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) Media Policy | Web Privacy Policy | Student Consumer Information | Title IX Policy | Accessibility
