Biology Technion Site Search for: English (Hebrew) Arrival Links Contact Biology Toggle navigation About Message From the Dean President Report News & Events News Faculty Calendar Social Events of the Faculty Faculty Retreat Yearim Hotel Faculty Retreat Purim Party Tu BiShvat 2018 New Garden Pictures from the Faculty Retreat 2012 Pictures from Golan Heights 21 Feb 2012 Pictures from the Faculty Retreat 2015 Recent Publications Faculty Paper of the Month Technion Ubiquitin Study Academic Programs Undergraduate Studies UG Related Links MSc and PhD Studies in Biology PhD Research Proposal MSc Research Project and Topic Life Sciences MBA + PhD People Academic Staff Administrative Staff Graduate Students Post Docs Phone book Areas of Interest Recent Publications Prizes and Awards Ning Yin memorial award for best student talk Positions MSc In Dr. Ayala Shibers Lab In Dr. Assaf Besters Lab In Dr. Aravas Lab In Dr. Ayoubs Lab In Prof Gepsteins Lab In Prof Schusters Lab In Dr. Kaplans Lab In Prof. Mellers Lab In Prof. Zilbersteins lab In Dr. Lamms Lab In Dr. Landaus Lab In Dr. Cohens Lab In Prof. Horowitzs lab In Dr. Shlomis Lab In Dr. Meiris Lab In Dr. Shemeshs Lab In Dr. Harans Lab Ph.D In Dr. Ayala Shibers Lab In Dr. Assaf Besters Lab In Prof Rons Lab In Dr. Aravas Lab In Dr. Ayoubs Lab In Prof. Glickmans Lab In Dr. Kaplans Lab In Prof. Meller In Prof. Zilbersteins lab In Dr. Lamms Lab In Dr. Harans Lab In Dr. Landaus Lab In Dr. Cohens Lab In Prof. Horowitzs lab In Dr. Shlomis Lab In Dr. Meiris Lab In Dr. Shemeshs Lab In Prof. Podbilewiczs Lab In Prof. Mellers Lab Postdoc In Dr. Assaf Besters Lab In Prof Rons Lab In Dr. Kaplans Lab In Prof. Zilbersteins lab In Dr. Landaus Lab In Dr. Cohens Lab In Dr. Shlomis Lab In Dr. Meiris Lab In Prof. Gepsteins Lab In Dr. Harans Lab In Prof. Podbilewiczs Lab Faculty Positions Courses Undergraduate Graduate Infrastructure Biology Equipment Website The Smoler Proteomics Center Russel Berrie Nanotechnology Institute TCSB-Technion Center for Structural Biology Life Sciences & Eng. infrastructure Unit The Technion Bioinformatics Knowledge Unit GeneralUndergraduate Studies MSc and PhD Studies in Biology Academic Staff Areas of Interest Service Undergraduate, Admission and Studies Home Page Selected articles slider Play Stop Science Meets Art 3 ... Read MoreRead more about: Science Meets Art 3 Science Meets Art 2 ... Read MoreRead more about: Science Meets Art 2 Science Meets Art -1 ... Read MoreRead more about: Science Meets Art -1 From Kishony Lab ... Read MoreRead more about: From Kishony Lab Welcome to Technion Technion Overview Technion Israel Institute of Technology, consistently ranked among the worlds top science... Read MoreRead more about: Welcome to Technion Biology provides the scientific basis for todays most vital areas, including biotechnology, medicine, biomedical and genetic engineering, and bioinformatics. With a finger on the pulse of different disciplines, The Technion Biology Faculty constantly tailor programs and courses to face the challenges of modern biology. News From PhD to Industry Virtual Panel Faculty of Biology In order to talk, listen, and especially open our heads to new opportunities, at the end of our doctorate, we are honored to host an inspiring panel of doctoral graduates who are currently in diverse and interesting positions in the industry. The panel will be held via Zoom, on Thursday 3.9.20 at 13: 00-14: 30. https://technion.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYpce2vrD4oG9Bsj06OOGCTASSleJe2erCb At the end of the registration, a link will be sent to Zoom hurry up and register! Panelists:Dr. Martin Akerman, CTO, Cofounder at Envisagenics, IncDr. Dikla Montekio Malter, Director of Investments & Partnerships at The Kitchen HubDr. Roi Feingersch, Foresee Genomics, CEO & FounderDr. Jasmin Ravid, Co-founder of Kinoko-TechDr. Shimon (Shimi) Shteingart, VP R&D at Bioimmunate LTD We will discuss all of the following topics: How should you decide between continuing your research in academia or moving to industry? What options do you have if you do not want to continue in research positions? What skills should you acquire during your studies? How do you differentiate yourself in your job search? What is the expected salary range? Is it still worth pursuing a postdoctoral fellowship before moving to industry? Can you continue teaching? Registration for the Biodesign Israel course has opened! Students from the Faculty of Biology are invited to an online question and answer meeting with the staff of the Biodesign Israel course. The meeting will be held on Wednesday 5/8/20 at 5:00 PM. Biodesign Israel is a training program for entrepreneurship and medical innovation, which operates as part of a collaboration between the Faculty of Medicine at Stanford and Rambam Hospital in Haifa. Both organizations have set themselves the goal of training leading entrepreneurs in the fields of medicine and biotechnology, and sprouting medical ventures that will lead to an impact on the quality of life of millions of people around the world. Interested in HealthTech Thinking of a career in the field? To develop a prototype for a solution, through regulatory issues, business plan, marketing, intellectual property and more. The course will be led by a team of physicians, trained at Stanford Biodesign alongside leading lecturers and mentors from the industry, combined with lectures by the team from Stanford. The program is fully funded and in collaboration with the leading parties in the country, a unique and one-time opportunity to set foot in the field! The number of places is limited, hurry to apply. Registration Biodesign Meeting Link MBA Life Sciences track with a PhD Our newest exciting program. Click on the link for further information Henry Taub Prize Winners Two of our faculty members, Meytal Landau and Oded Beja, were awarded The Henry Taub Prize for Academic Excellence. This prize is the Technion highest competitive award for academic excellence and will be administered at the next Technion Board of Governs that will convene in June. Congratulations to Meytal and Oded for the great achievement and continued success in future work. Seminars and Conferences Publications The tumor suppressor Sef is a scaffold for the classical NF-B/RELA:P50 signaling module. Korsensky L., Haif S., Heller R., Rabinovitz S., Haddad-Halloun J.,... Delivery of the gene encoding the tumor suppressor Sef into prostate tumors by therapeutic-ultrasound inhibits both tumor angiogenesis and growth. Mishel S., Shneyer B., Korsensky l., Goldshmidt-Tran O., Haber T.,... The structure of FIV reverse transcriptase and its implications for non-nucleoside inhibitor resistance Galilee M and Alian A. The structure of FIV reverse... The role of cytoplasmic-to-lysosomal pH gradient in hydrophobic weak base drug sequestration in lysosomes Zhitomirsky, B. and Assaraf, Y.G. (2015) The role of cytoplasmic-to-lysosomal... Directions Contact Information Openning Hours (GMT+2): Sun Thu: 08:00 16:00 Phone: +972-4-8294211 Arrival Links Contact Facebook Twitter Youtube Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Technion City, Haifa 3200003, Israel | Powered by Powered by
