D'Amours, Claude | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Programs and courses Future students Students Faculties Research Alumni Support uOttawa uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / D'Amours, Claude AboutEvents and ceremonies News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeVirtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsNEW Online Engineering Management Programs Courses Graduate thesis supervisors Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic unitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil engineering Mechanical engineering School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Partnerships and collaboration Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Claude D'Amours E-Card Claude D'AmoursDirector of EECS and ProfessorPhDP.Eng.Room: STE 5092Office: 613-562-5800 ext. 6208Work E-mail: cdamours@uOttawa.cahttp://www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~damours/ Biography Claude D'Amours received his B.A.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering with a concentration in communications in 1990. He obtained his M.A.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering in 1992. His Master's thesis is entitled "Differential and Coherent RAKE Receivers for DS-CDMA in Frequency-Selective Rayleigh Fading Channels". He completed the requirements for the degree of Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering in 1995. His Ph.D. thesis is entitled "Hybrid DS/FH-CDMA Systems Employing FSK Based Modulation Schemes". All of these degrees were obtained at the University of Ottawa. His Master's and Ph.D. supervisor was Dr. Abbas Yongacoglu. In 1992, while pursuing his Ph.D., Claude D'Amours was employed as a systems engineer at Calian Communication Systems Ltd., in Kanata, Ontario. He joined the Communications Research Centre (CRC) as a systems engineer in 1995 upon completion of his Ph.D. Still in 1995, Claude D'Amours accepted the position of Assistant Professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Royal Military College (RMC) of Canada. He remained at RMC until July 1999 when he joined the School of Information Technology and Engineering (SITE) at the University of Ottawa as an Assistant Professor. He was promoted to the rank of Associate Professor in 2005 and has been serving as Vice Dean of Academic Affairs of the Faculty of Engineering since March 2007. He won the Faculty of Engineerings John V Marsh Award for Teaching Excellence in 2006 and a University of Ottawa Excellence in Teaching Award in 2007. His research interests are in the field of communications with special interest in digital communications, coding, modulation, multiple access, information theory, and encryption. He has performed extensive research in code division multiple access (CDMA) systems. His current research work focuses on advanced spreading allocation techniques for DS-CDMA and MIMO-CDMA systems. He is the primary inventor of the parity bit selected spreading technique for CDMA systems as well as the permutation spreading technique for MIMO-CDMA systems. Fields of Interest Wireless Communications MIMO, CDMA, OFDM SC-FDMA Modulation Error Control Coding Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada About uOttawa Media Privacy uoZone Library A-Z Index Accessibility Employees Jobs Policies Copyright Governance About uOttawa Accessibility Media Employees Privacy Jobs uoZone Policies Library Copyright A-Z Index Governance On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
