Mansourov, Nicolai | Faculty of Engineering | University of Ottawa Jump to Main Content Jump to Navigation LanguageFranais (passer la version franaise de cette page)English (switch to the English version of this page)LoginuoZone Brightspace VirtuO Search uOttawa.ca Search one of the following. Entire site Library Employee directory Programs and courses Future students Students Faculties Research Alumni Support uOttawa uoZone Brightspace VirtuO Faculty of Engineering Faculty of Engineering / Staff and professor directory / Mansourov, Nicolai AboutEvents and ceremonies News and awards Faculty awards Governance Undergraduate programsCourses and course sequences Undergraduate studies officeVirtual waiting line / appointment booking Exams schedule FAQ Graduate programsNEW Online Engineering Management Programs Courses Graduate thesis supervisors Graduate studies office Future studentsProgram Spotlight Student experienceCO-OP program Design spaces Competitive teams Go international Peer Connection Program Clubs and associations Events and ceremonies Volunteer Design courses with industry and clients Startup ecosystem Research for undergraduate students Mentoring centre - The Workshop Funding for student initiatives Scholarships and bursaries Hojjat Salemi International Students Workshop Series Our researchAreas of research Enabling technologies for health care and augmented life Technology for the digital transformation of society Sustainable and resilient infrastructure Emerging materials and processes: design and development Photonics for devices, networks and energy Research Chairs Our research partners Research partnerships and collaboration Resources for researchers Academic unitsChemical and Biological Engineering Civil engineering Mechanical engineering School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Centre for Entrepreneurship and Engineering DesignEntrepreneurial ecosystem Design spacesBrunsfield Centre uOttawa Richard L'Abb Makerspace John McEntyre Team Space (JMTS) Manufacturing Training Centre MakerLab Sandbox Simon Nehme Design Commons Courses and learningSimon Nehme Summer Entrepreneurship School Entrepreneurial internships and CO-OP Student competitionsDesign Day Entrepreneurial Idea Entrepreneurship Concepts Student teams MakerLaunch Engineering OutreachPrograms for kids Programs for teens Activities for teachers Faculty of Engineering Secondary School Events Partnerships and collaboration Make the Future - Industry InsightsMake the Future podcast Staff and professor directory COVID-19: Last Update Nicolai Mansourov E-Card Nicolai MansourovAdjunct ProfessorWork E-mail: nmansurov@rogers.comhttp://www.kdmanalytics.com/kdma/index.html Biography Dr. Mansourov, KDM Analytics Chief Technical Officer, is recognized worldwide for his work in the areas of automatic code generation and using formal specifications in both forward and reverse engineering. Prior to joining KDM Analytics, Dr. Mansourov was the Chief Scientist and Chief Architect at Klocwork Inc, where he significantly helped build the companys credibility. Dr. Mansourov also was a department head at the Institute for System Programming, Russian Academy of Sciences, where he was responsible for numerous groundbreaking research projects in advanced software development for industry leaders Nortel Networks and Telelogic. Dr. Mansourov has 10 years experience teaching Computer Science during his tenure as an Associate Professor at the Moscow State University. Currently he is an Adjunct Professor at the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) of the University of Ottawa. Dr. Mansourov has published over 50 research papers and is a frequent speaker as well as member of program committees at various international research forums. He is a founding member of the World-Wide Institute of Software Architects WWISA). His impact on the industry continues through his participation on several standards bodies, including the ITU-T and Object Management Group. Dr. Mansourov is one of the first OMG-certified UML Advanced Professionals and a member of the UML2 standardization team. Dr. Mansourov is the Editor of the OMG Knowledge Discovery Metamodel (KDM) specification and the Chair of the OMG Revision Task Force for KDM. Academic unit:School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Back to top uOttawa - Faculty of Engineering Undergraduate Studies Office STE 1020 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5918 Fax.:613-562-5187 bacinfo@engineering.uOttawa.ca Graduate Studies Office STE 1024 (map) 800 King Edward Ave. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5347 Fax.:613-562-5129 engineering.grad@uOttawa.ca Office of the DeanCBY A306 (map) 161 Louis Pasteur Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5 Tel.:613-562-5682 Fax.:613-562-5174 Staff and professor directory Faculty services Engineering Information Technology Services Health and safety Web feedback Contact the University 75 Laurier Ave. East, Ottawa ONK1N 6N5 Canada About uOttawa Media Privacy uoZone Library A-Z Index Accessibility Employees Jobs Policies Copyright Governance About uOttawa Accessibility Media Employees Privacy Jobs uoZone Policies Library Copyright A-Z Index Governance On-Campus Emergency Visit the University of Ottawa's Youtube profile Visit the University of Ottawa's LinkedIn profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Instagram profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Twitter profile Visit the University of Ottawa's Facebook profile
