Daniel T. Schwartz | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW Chemical Engineering MyChemE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? About the Department Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Snapshot Faculty Directory Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Ph.D. Student Handbook Master's Student Handbook Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees UW ChemE ACES WChE @ UW Diversity Resources Alumni Alumni Stay Connected Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE GIVE People PeopleFaculty DirectoryFaculty Finder - betaDaniel T. Schwartz Daniel T. Schwartz Boeing-Sutter Professor Chemical Engineering Adjunct Professor Materials Science & Engineering Director Clean Energy Institute dts@u.washington.edu (206) 685-4815 BNS 305 Schwartz Group Biography Schwartz is the Boeing-Sutter Professor of Chemical Engineering and the founding director of the UW Clean Energy Institute (CEI). Established with funding from the state of Washington in 2013, CEI supports the advancement of next-generation solar energy and battery materials and devices, as well as their integration with systems and the grid. His research explores transport and reaction in electrochemical systems, including the performance of complex electrodes used in energy storage and conversion. Schwartz served on the Technical Advisory Board for Washingtons Energy Strategy in 2012 and, in 2018, he received the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring from the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and the National Science Foundation. He is a Fellow of the Electrochemical Society and a board and executive committee member of the Washington CleanTech Alliance. Education Ph.D., University of California, Davis, 1989 M.S., University of California, Davis, 1985 B.S., University of Minnesota, 1983 Previous appointments Chair, UW Department of Chemical Engineering, 2009-2013 Associate Dean of Research, UW College of Engineering, 2005-2008 Postdoctoral Fellow, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, 1991 Research Statement Learn more about the Schwartz Group'scurrent work on electrochemical energy conversion and storage, as well as electrodeposition-based manufacturing, on theirlab website Honors & awards Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring, OSTP/NSF, 2016 Oppenheimer Sciences & Energy Leadership Program, U.S. Department of Energy (Inaugural Awardee), 2016 Research Award of the Electrochemical Society Electrodeposition Division, 2015 Marsha Landolt Distinguished Graduate Mentor Award, University of Washington, 2015 Linford Award of the Electrochemical Society, 2010 News Powering the future of transportation UW energy storage researchers are working with Nobel laureates to build a better battery for electric vehicles Read More Schwartz wins highest U.S. award for STEM mentors Daniel Schwartz, a University of Washington professor of chemical engineering and director of the Clean Energy... Read More ChemE faculty elected to WA Academy of Sciences Profs. Baneyx and Schwartz wereelected to the Washington State Academy of Sciences for "their outstanding record of... Read More ChemE research areas Energy Systems Data Science & Molecular Simulation Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Electrochemical Materials & Interfaces Nano/microfabrication Energy Technologies Functional Materials Synthesis Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
