John C. Berg | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW Chemical Engineering MyChemE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? About the Department Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Snapshot Faculty Directory Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Ph.D. Student Handbook Master's Student Handbook Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees UW ChemE ACES WChE @ UW Diversity Resources Alumni Alumni Stay Connected Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE GIVE People PeopleFaculty DirectoryFaculty Finder - betaJohn C. Berg John C. Berg Rehnberg Chair Professor Chemical Engineering spc@uw.edu (206) 543-2029 BNS 265 Berg Group Education Ph.D., University of California (Berkeley), 1964 B.S., Carnegie Institute of Technology, 1960 Research Statement Interfacial Phenomena; Surface and Colloid ScienceThe behavior of many systems, including thin films, fibers, filaments, jets, drops, bubbles, foams, dispersions, and porous media, may be dominated by the properties of their interfaces. We are examining a variety of problems involving interfacial properties and their consequences. For example, we are investigating the interaction between liquids and solid surfaces as they are influenced by acid-base interactions and are applying such understanding to the improvement of contact adhesion, mechanical properties of new composite materials and the performance of absorbent products. We are examining strategies for conversion from solvent-based to water-based coating formulations, requiring new understanding of the mechanisms of electro-steric stabilization in complex colloidal media. Both the kinetics and morphology of floc formation are being studied. We are also investigating improved methods for recycling of mixed paper wastes, including both flotation de-inking and liquid-bridge agglomeration. We are examining the dynamic properties of multicomponent liquids and their interaction with print media in a study of ink-jet printing. The underlying science of interfaces and colloids is leading to the creation of new materials, new strategies for environmental control, and new technologies for industrial production. Background material in interfacial and colloid science is made available in a variety of course offerings in the department. News A legacy of student support and research excellence ChemE launches the Berg Endowed Fellowship Read More ChemE research areas Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Colloidal Materials Adhesion Phenomena Gels in Multi-phase Media UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
