Samson A. Jenekhe | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW Chemical Engineering MyChemE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? About the Department Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Snapshot Faculty Directory Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Ph.D. Student Handbook Master's Student Handbook Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees UW ChemE ACES WChE @ UW Diversity Resources Alumni Alumni Stay Connected Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE GIVE People PeopleFaculty DirectoryFaculty Finder - betaSamson A. Jenekhe Samson A. Jenekhe Boeing-Martin Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Chemistry jenekhe@uw.edu (206) 543-5525 BNS 365 Education PhD, Chemical Engineering, University of Minnesota, 1985 MA, Philosophy, University of Minnesota, 1981 MS, Chemical Engineering, University of Minnesota, 1980 BS, Engineering, Michigan Technological University, 1977 Previous appointments Professor of Chemical Engineering, Materials Science, and Chemistry, University of Rochester, 1994-2000 Principal Research Scientist, Honeywell Inc., Physical Sciences Center, 1984-1987 Research Statement Electroluminescent Polymers for Displays, Self-Assembling Polymer Systems, Polymer Device Engineering, Tunable Optical Polymer Systems, and Polymer Nanophotonics One of Professor Jenekhe's main research interests focuses on electronic, optoelectronic, and photonic phenomena in polymers. Fundamental understanding of these phenomena and the related electroactive and photoactive properties in synthetic polymers is essential to their applications in diverse areas of technology ranging from imaging, photodetectors, batteries, sensors, electrochromic devices, and solar cells to light emitting diodes for flat panel displays. One perennial problem is elucidation of the structural origins of electronic and photonic properties of polymers; another is how to improve or control the efficiencies of the photophysical and charge transport processes. Our general approaches to these problems include the design and synthesis of new polymers, physical and photophysical measurements, structure-property correlations, computational modeling, thin film processing, and polymer device engineering. In one area, we are exploring how the electronic, molecular, and supramolecular structures and morpholoty of conjugated polymers influence their photoconductivity, luminescence, and charge transport properties. Model systems include homologous series of conjugated oligomers, blends of conjugated polymers, and derivatized conjugated polymers. Aggregation of conjugated polymers which can lead to diverse phenomena is under study, including the formation of excited-state and ground-state complexes which can significantly modulate the optical and photoelectronic properties of the materials. Our studies in the area of polymer thin film device engineering are aimed at addressing the fundamental and engineering issues involved in developing and producing high performance and durable electronic and optoelectronic devices (e.g. light-emitting diodes, photodetectors, thin film transistors, photovoltaic cells, sensors, etc.) from organic and polymeric materials. These issues include polymer thin film deposition processes, characterization of the electronic, optical and mechanical properties of polymer thin films and polymer/polymer, and polymer/metal interfaces, and the fabrication and evaluation of multilayer polymer thin film devices. Recently discovered finite size effects on nanoscale semiconducting polymer thin films and devices also require further study. Honors & awards Polymer Physics Prize, American Physical Society, 2021 Highly Cited Researcher in Materials Science, Clarivate Analytics, 2017-2018 Worlds Most Influential Scientific Minds list, Clarivate Analytics/Thomson Reuters, 2015-2017 Charles M. A. Stine Award for Excellence in Materials Science and Engineering, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2014 Highly Cited Researcher in Materials Science, Thomson Reuters, 2014-2016 News Jenekhe wins APS Polymer Physics Prize Professor Sam Jenekhe is recognized for his influential work on semiconducting polymers for electronic and photovoltaic... Read More ChemE research areas Energy Systems Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Organic Electronics and Optoelectronics Self-assembly and Nanotechnology Polymer Science Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
