Buddy Ratner | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW Chemical Engineering MyChemE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? About the Department Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Snapshot Faculty Directory Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Ph.D. Student Handbook Master's Student Handbook Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees UW ChemE ACES WChE @ UW Diversity Resources Alumni Alumni Stay Connected Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE GIVE People PeopleFaculty DirectoryFaculty Finder - betaBuddy Ratner Buddy Ratner Michael L. and Myrna Darland Endowed Chair in Technology Commercialization College of Engineering Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Bioengineering Adjunct Professor Materials Science & Engineering ratner@uweb.engr.washington.edu (206) 685-1005 BIOE N330J UW Engineering Biomaterials Center for Dialysis Innovation Biography Buddy Ratner is Co-Director of the Center for Dialysis Innovation, Director of the Engineered Biomaterials Engineering Research Center, Michael L. and Myrna Darland Endowed Chair in Technology Commercialization, and Professor in Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering at the University of Washington. He received his PhD from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. He is an expert in biomaterials used in medical devices and implants, and his lab is working on multiple bioengineering projects for tissues and organs. Dr. Ratner is a fellow and past president of the American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE), as well as a member of the National Academy of Engineering, the AVS (formerly the American Vacuum Society), and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, among other groups. Dr. Ratner has authored more than 400 scholarly works and has more than 30 issued patents. His numerous awards include the 2014 Lifetime Inventor and Innovator Award from the University of Washington, as well as three honors received in 2015: the Distinguished Service Award from the ACS Division of Polymer Chemistry; the Langmuir Lecture Award from the American Chemical Society; and the Most Cited Paper Award from the Annals of Biomedical Engineering. Education PhD, Polymer Chemistry, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, 1972 BS, Chemistry, Brooklyn College, 1967 Previous appointments Director, National ESCA and Surface Analysis Center for Biomedical Problems (NESAC/BIO), UW, 1985-1996 Postdoctoral Fellow, Chemical Engineering, University of Washington, 1972-1973 Research Statement Todays biomaterials and medical devices save lives and improve the quality of life for millions. They are part of a $300 billion industry. However, there are also complications that stem from these devices, often associated with non-physiologic (fibrotic) healing, initiation of inflammation, thrombosis and/or bacterial colonization. The UW Engineered Biomaterials program (an Engineering Research Center, originally funded by the NSF) asks if healing and performance of implanted biomaterials might be engineered to be similar to the healing of normal wounds? To do this, we study the basic biology of wound healing in collaboration with colleagues with expertise in these areas. Then, we, as engineers, translate the basic scientific discoveries into technologies that improve the performance of medical devices. We engineer new biomaterial surfaces using a wide range of technologies. For example, radio-frequency plasma deposition (a method borrowed from microelectronics) can readily place interesting thin films on existing medical device surfaces. These films can be used in the precision immobilization of key signaling molecules. We also synthesize new polymers that can be biostable, environmentally responsive, biodegradable and/or porous (i.e., scaffolds). The new surfaces and materials made in our laboratory are studied in contact with proteins, blood, living cells and tissues (in vivo and in vitro). Biomaterial surfaces are the only part of a biomaterial or medical device that is seen by the body. Surfaces present unique analytical problems because of the small mass of material involved (a billionth of a gram of matter per square centimeter is typical). Special instruments are required to study surfaces, and we adapt methods developed in the physics and microelectronics communities to problems in biology and medicine. We use electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis (ESCA), secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), infrared spectroscopy, scanning probe microscopies, surface plasmon resonance and sum frequency generation to observe surface structure and biological interactions. Recently, there has been considerable interest in tissue engineering in my laboratory. Tissue engineering exploits all the above principles in the context of tissue and organ reconstruction and regeneration. Specific tissue engineering projects in the Ratner lab have aimed toward heart muscle, esophagus, bone, cartilage, bladder, vagina and cornea. Another new project seeks to model cancer tumor microenvironments using tissue engineering ideas. In 2016, we launched the Center for Dialysis Innovation (CDI). CDI aims to address many of problems in kidney dialysis that shorten the lives of patients including blood compatibility, fibrosis, restenosis, bacterial infection, membrane limitations, etc. I serve as co-director of CDI along with Professor Jonathan Himmelfarb (MD nephrologist). Honors & awards Distinguished Service Award, ACS Division of Polymer Chemistry, 2015 University of Washington School of Medicine Lifetime Innovator and Inventor Award, 2014 George Winter Award, European Society for Biomaterials, 2012 Pierre Galletti Award of the American Institute of Medical & Biological Engineering, 2011 Listed in AIChEs One Hundred Chemical Engineers of the Modern Era," 2008 C. William Hall Award, Society for Biomaterials, 2006 Founders Award, Society for Biomaterials, 2004 Medard W. Welch Award, American Vacuum Society, 2002 C.M.A. Stine Award for Materials Science, AIChE, 1998 Perkin Elmer Physical Electronics Award for Excellence in Surface Science, 1991 News Dialysis innovation garners national prize The Center for Dialysis Innovation earns a KidneyX award for a porous synthetic graft intended to make dialysis safer... Read More Pioneers in Biomaterials How visionary chemical engineers at the UW set the stage for decades of biomaterials innovation Read More $15M for Dialysis Innovation Northwest Kidney Centers plans to gift$15M to the Center for Dialysis Innovation co-directed by Prof. Buddy Ratner. Read More ChemE research areas Health & Biotechnology Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Biointerface Synthesis, Modification and Characterization Tissue Engineering & Regenerative Medicine Synthesis and Characterization of Polymeric Biomaterials Healing and Inflammation Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
