Jim Pfaendtner | UW Chemical Engineering Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW Chemical Engineering MyChemE UW Links Menu Search About Us About Us What Is Chemical Engineering? About the Department Message from the Chair Degrees & Accreditation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Employment Contact Us People People Faculty Snapshot Faculty Directory Staff Students Research Research Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Energy Systems News & Events News & Events News Department Seminars & Lectures Catalyst Newsletter Event Calendar Undergraduates Undergraduates Admission Curriculum Plan of Study Student Life Careers in Chemical Engineering Study Abroad Scholarships Policies Degrees & Accreditation Grad Students Grad Students Prospective Graduate Students Graduate Courses Ph.D. Student Handbook Master's Student Handbook Recent Ph.D. Degrees Recent M.S. Degrees UW ChemE ACES WChE @ UW Diversity Resources Alumni Alumni Stay Connected Give to ChemE In Memoriam Additional Links Additional Links MyChemE Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE MyChemE GIVE People PeopleFaculty DirectoryFaculty Finder - betaJim Pfaendtner Jim Pfaendtner Steven and Connie Rogel Endowed Professor Chemical Engineering Professor Chemistry Chemical Engineering Department Chair Associate Vice Provost for Research Computing Staff Scientist, Pacific Northwest National Lab Senior Data Scientist, UW eScience Institute jpfaendt@u.washington.edu (206) 616-8128 BNS 107 Pfaendtner Research Group Education Ph.D. Northwestern University, 2007 B.S. ChE, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2001 Research Statement Our group uses computer simulations to understand and control molecular scale driving forces for a widerange of applications spanning biotechnology to fuel combustion. We develop new methods that expand thecapabilities of molecular simulation and use advanced research computing resources to solve challengingproblems in the area of computational molecular science. A few representative projects are described below.Molecular Data ScienceMolecular Data Science research in the Pfaendtner group applies AI to the chemical engineering problemsto aid in the discovery, design and characterization of new molecules and materials. We use statistical and machine learning methods, complex data visualizations, and advanced supercomputers in our work. Examplesinclude using AI to learn from the rules of nature new ways to design polymer sorbents selective capture of small molecules to harnessing neural networks to uncover molecular fingerprints that help design new molecules for energy storage applications.Complex Reacting SystemsOur research in complex reaction networks primarily focuses on the use of MD simulation to predict newreaction pathways when the chemistry is too complicated to enumerate by hand and/or there is insufficientknowledge to apply automated reaction mechanism generation tools. We use a variety of approaches tocharacterize reaction networks including statistical learning, enhanced sampling, and ab initio methods.Current areas of interest include applications in combustion, pyrolysis and reactions in the condensed phase.Biomimetic Materials and PolymersOur group studies a range of soft-matter systems ranging from synthetic polymers to biomimetic systems. For example, we seek to use computer simulations to unravel the atomic scale features of ion-diffusion in conjugated polymers for applications in bioelectronics and energy storage. We also study so-called sequence defined polymers that mimic biomaterials found in nature like peptides. One versatile class of materials are N-substituted glycines or peptoids. Working closely with experimental collaborators, we use computer simulations to understand fundamental kinetic and thermodynamic mechanisms related to peptoid self-assembly and structure-function relationships. This work requires careful development of empirical potentials (force fields) for molecular modeling as well as application of special simulation methods to increase the accessible length and time scales we can probe with our models. Honors & awards UW College of Engineering Faculty Junior Innovator Award, 2014 NAE Frontiers of Engineering Education Participant, 2013 UW Presidential Distinguished Teaching Award, 2013 ACS OpenEye Outstanding Junior Faculty Award, 2013 NSF CAREER Award, 2012 US National Academy of Science Kavli Fellow, 2012 News Quantum edge Through the QuantumX initiative, guided by ChemE chair Jim Pfaendtner and multidisciplinary partners, the UW aims to be... Read More Pioneers in Biomaterials How visionary chemical engineers at the UW set the stage for decades of biomaterials innovation Read More New project to develop bio-inspired design principles By mimicking how organisms produce biominerals, engineers may be able to synthesize advanced composite materials Read More 100 nanoseconds in time Ph.D. candidate Sarah Alamdari is usingUWs supercomputer to better understand how biomolecules interact with one... Read More ChemE research areas Energy Systems Data Science & Molecular Simulation Health & Biotechnology Advanced Materials & Interfacial Engineering Research interests Computational Molecular Science Interfacial Phenomena of Proteins Applications of AI to Chemical Engineering Complex Reacting Systems Biomineralization Publications Google Scholar UW College of Engineering Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 UW Chemical Engineering | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
