Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Our People - Lyles School of Civil Engineering - Purdue University Skip to main content Main Menu Main Menu Search Purdue Engineering CE About Us About Us Welcome CE News Events Calendar Facilities Awards & Honors History Contact Us CE Apparel Store CE by the Numbers Our People Our People Directory Faculty Administrative Offices Staff Committees Alumni Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Academics Academics Specialty Areas Undergraduate Program Burke Graduate Program Cooperative Education Program CE Continuing Lectures Research Research Research Areas Research Centers Bowen Laboratory Undergraduate Research Alumni Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Civil Engineering Alumni Achievement Awards School of Civil Engineering Distinguished Engineering Alumni eConnections Alumni Newsletter Civil Engineering Advisory Council Give to CE Professional Education Engineering Alumni Association Engineering Alumni Association Giving Giving Giving Giving Priorities Civil Engineering Development Team Annual Giving Matching Gifts Planned Gifts Excel Fund President's Council Donor Bill of Rights Intranet Instagram YouTube Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Medium Podcast Lyles School of Civil Engineering Purdue Engineering Lyles School of Civil Engineering Our People Andrew J Whelton Associate Professor of Civil Engineering and Environmental and Ecological Engineering Purdue University Lyles School of Civil Engineering 550 Stadium Mall Drive West Lafayette, IN 47907-2051 Office: HAMP 3145E Phone: (765) 494-2160 Email: awhelton@purdue.edu Twitter: http://twitter.com/TheWheltonGroup Specialty Area(s) Environmental Engineering Education Postdoc., Polymeric MaterialsNational Institute for Standards and Technology, 2011 Postdoc., Environmental NanotechnologyVirginia Tech, 2010 Ph.D., Civil EngineeringVirginia Tech, 2009 M.S., Environmental EngineeringVirginia Tech, 2001 B.S., Civil EngineeringVirginia Tech, 2000 Research Summary Dr. Whelton and his team investigates and solves problems that affect our natural and built environments. His expertise focusses on environmental chemistry and engineering, disasters, polymer science and engineering, water quality, infrastructure, and public health. Plumbing Safety website Cured-in-Place-Pipe (CIPP) Safety website Selected Publications Sendesi S.M.T., Ra K., Conkling E.N., Boor B.E., Nuruddin M., Howarter J.A., Youngblood J.P., Kobo L.M., Shannahan J.H., Jafvert C.T., Whelton A.J. 2017. Worksite Chemical Air Emissions and Worker Exposure during Sanitary Sewer and Stormwater Pipe Rehabilitation Using Cured-in-Place-Pipe (CIPP). Environmental Science & Technology Letters. DOI: 10.1021/acs.estlett.7b00237 Whelton, A.J., McMillan, L., Connell, M., Kelley, K.M., Gill, J.P., White, K.D., Gupta, R., Dey, R., Novy, C. 2014. Residential Tap Water Contamination Following the Freedom Industries Chemical Spill: Perceptions, Water Quality, and Health Impacts. Environmental Science & Technology. DOI: 10.1021/es5040969 Kelley, K., Stenson, S., Dey, R., Whelton, A.J. 2014. Release of Drinking Water Contaminants and Odor Impacts Caused by Green Building Cross-Linked Polyethylene (PEX) Plumbing Systems. Water Research. 67 (15), 1932. Tabor, M., Newman, D., Whelton, A.J. 2014. Stormwater Chemical Contamination Caused by Cured-In-Place Pipe (CIPP) Infrastructure Rehabilitation Activities. Environmental Science & Technology. 48 (18), 1093810947. Donaldson, B.M., Whelton, A.J. "Water Quality Implications of Culvert Rehabilitation Technologies: A Field Study of Cured-in-place Pipe and Spray-on Liner Technologies," J. of the Transportation Research Board, 2013. Greifenstein, M., White, K.D., Stubner, A., Hout, J., Whelton, A.J. "Impact of Temperature and Storage Duration on the Chemical and Odor Quality of Military Packaged Water in Polyethylene Terephthalate Bottles," J. of the Science of the Total Environment, 2013, pg. 376-383. Whelton, A.J., Nguyen, T. "Contaminant Migration from Polymeric Pipes used in Buried Potable Water Distribution Systems: A Review," J. of Environmental Science and Technology, Vol. 43/7, 2013, pg. 679-751. Bio Andrew Whelton, Ph.D. is a Purdue University associate professor of civil, environmental, and ecological engineering, who is nationally recognized for water infrastructure disaster response and recovery. Dr. Whelton has applied his unique skill set for 16 years to uncover and address problems at the interface of infrastructure materials, the environment, and public health. Topics pertaining to disaster response and recovery as well as construction site safety are just two of many topics his research has impacted. Dr. Wheltons discoveries have positively changed how government agencies (EPA, CDC, NRC, NIOSH, NIST, ARMY), water utilities, nonprofit organizations, health departments, state legislatures, and building owners approach their responsibilities. Since February 2019, his team has been assisting in the 2018 Camp Fire response and recovery, the largest most destructive fire in Californias history including conducting a survey and hosting a public meeting about drinking water and plumbing after the Camp Fire. Previously, his teams discoveries resulted in briefing invitations by the Indiana Senate, the National Academies of Sciences Standing Committee on Disaster Science, and the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. Here, he helped agencies understand emerging public health issues, their root-causes, and federal actions needed to prevent chemical disaster reoccurrence. In 2014, during testimony to Congress by the Natural Resources Defense Council, his water security research was cited. In 2015, the National Science Foundation created a 2015 Science Nation video to highlight his teams work as benefiting U.S. public safety and welfare. In 2014, he was called in by West Virginia Governor Earl Ray Tomblin after the 2014 Charleston chemical spill. The incident contaminated the capitol citys sole 50 MGD treatment plant, 2200 miles of water mains, 107 storage tanks, and 120 booster stations across 124 pressure zones. About 15% of the states population was affected. Through two research teams he assisted the state and community recover from the incident. His research teams have identified best practices for planning for and recovering from natural and made-made disasters that affect water systems. He has extensive experience understanding material aging and chemical fate in water distribution systems and building plumbing, with an emphasis in plastic materials. Dr. Whelton has organized and presented town hall public meetings, conducted sampling at private residences, government buildings, and provided Governors staff feedback on evidence-based public messaging, and engaged in press conferences. At present, hes leading a nationally funded drinking water plumbing safety initiative with multiple universities and industrial collaborators. His research efforts have been supported by $4.8 million dollars from government and private sectors. Before joining Purdue University, he served on the faculty at the University of South Alabama, and worked for the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) Building Fire Research Laboratory, Virginia Tech, U.S. Army, and private engineering consulting firms. Hes authored more than 50 peer-reviewed publications and delivered more than 200 presentations. A hallmark of his work is direct engagement with communities at risk. His teams have established websites (www.PlumbingSafety.org; www.CIPPSafety.org) to make discoveries accessible to the public and communities of interest. He earned a B.S. in Civil Engineering, M.S. in Environmental Engineering, and Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Virginia Tech. Our People CE People Faculty Directory Staff Directory Administration Committees Alumni & Friends CE Ambassadors Student Spotlights Student Organizations Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2020 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact Office of Marketing and Media for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-ce@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
