Yu, Menggang Department of Statistics UWMadison Skip to main content University of WisconsinMadison UW Crest Department of Statistics UW Madison College of Letters & Science Search Menu open menu close About Expand Collapse Welcome and Diversity Contact and Location Jobs Alumni Department History Undergraduate Expand Collapse Courses and Enrollment Data Science Major Statistics Major Graduate Expand Collapse Graduate Admissions PhD Program MS Program Data Science Option Biometry Statistics Doctoral Minor Courses and Enrollment Research Expand Collapse Research Interests Seminars Conferences Technical Reports Affiliated Programs People Expand Collapse Faculty Staff Students and Alumni Undergraduate Statistics Club Graduate Student Club Resources Expand Collapse Learning Center Statistical Consulting Lab (CALS) Computing Expand Collapse Account Activation General Information Getting Help Statistics Computing Information High Throughput Computing Resources SCHOOL of COMPUTER, DATA & INFORMATION SCIENCES Support The Department of Statistics Home Faculty and Staff Faculty Yu, Menggang Menggang Yu Position title: Professor, Biostatistics and Medical Informatics Email: meyu@biostat.wisc.edu Phone: 261-1988 Menggang Yu Website Professor, Department of Biostatistics and Informatics Director, Biostatistics Shared Resource, UW Carbone Cancer Center University of Wisconsin, Madison Dr. Menggang Yu is a professor at the Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of Wisconsin Madison and Director of the Biostatistics Shared Resources at the UW Carbone Cancer Center. He is an elected fellow of the American Statistical Association (ASA). Dr. Yu conducts broad statistical methodology research, all motivated by his daily collaborative experience with medical investigators. His methodological publications cover extensive topics including joint modeling of longitudinal and survival data, missing data, clinical trial design and analysis, causal inference, and personalized medicine. Dr. Yu is also a devoted statistical collaborator. One of his career goals is to make integral contributions to scientific research that has direct impact on human health. His scientific collaboration is mainly in the areas of cancer and health care research. He has also co-authored over 80 collaborative medical papers, among which over 25% are in highly impactful medical journals (with 2017 impact factors range from 10.0 to 244.6). These publications introduce ground-breaking and practice-changing results to many areas of oncology and health services. Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Welcome and Diversity Academics Research Interests Faculty List Staff Learning Center Contact UsUW Madison Department of Statistics 1300 University Ave Madison, WI 53706 USA Email: enroll@stat.wisc.edu Phone: (608) 262-2598 facebook twitter Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: lab@stat.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | 2020 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
