Doksum, Kjell Department of Statistics UWMadison Skip to main content University of WisconsinMadison UW Crest Department of Statistics UW Madison College of Letters & Science Search Menu open menu close About Expand Collapse Welcome and Diversity Contact and Location Jobs Alumni Department History Undergraduate Expand Collapse Courses and Enrollment Data Science Major Statistics Major Graduate Expand Collapse Graduate Admissions PhD Program MS Program Data Science Option Biometry Statistics Doctoral Minor Courses and Enrollment Research Expand Collapse Research Interests Seminars Conferences Technical Reports Affiliated Programs People Expand Collapse Faculty Staff Students and Alumni Undergraduate Statistics Club Graduate Student Club Resources Expand Collapse Learning Center Statistical Consulting Lab (CALS) Computing Expand Collapse Account Activation General Information Getting Help Statistics Computing Information High Throughput Computing Resources SCHOOL of COMPUTER, DATA & INFORMATION SCIENCES Support The Department of Statistics Home Faculty and Staff Faculty Doksum, Kjell Kjell Doksum Position title: Emeritus Professor, Statistics Email: doksum@stat.wisc.edu Phone: 608-890-0940 Dr Kjell Doksum is Senior Scientist in the Statistics Department at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and he is Emeritus Professor in the Statistics Department at the University of California, Berkeley. He has held visiting positions at the LUniversite de Paris, University of Oslo, the Norwegian Institute of Technology in Trondheim, Harvard University, Harvard Medical School, Columbia University, Bank of Japan, Hitotsubashi University in Tokyo, and Stanford University. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and of the American Statistical Association, as well as an elected member of the International Statistical Institute and the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters. His research focuses on statistical theory and modeling. It includes inference for nonparametric regression and correlation curves, global measures of association in semiparametric and nonparametric settings, estimation of regression quantiles, Bayesian nonparametric inference, and high dimensional data analysis. Applications include statistical modeling of HIV data, and the analysis of financial data. Kjell Doksum is the co-author with Peter Bickel of the book Mathematical Statistics: Basic Concepts and Selected Topics. Volumes I and II , CRC Press. Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Welcome and Diversity Academics Research Interests Faculty List Staff Learning Center Contact UsUW Madison Department of Statistics 1300 University Ave Madison, WI 53706 USA Email: enroll@stat.wisc.edu Phone: (608) 262-2598 facebook twitter Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: lab@stat.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | 2020 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
