Sepplinen, Timo Department of Statistics UWMadison Skip to main content University of WisconsinMadison UW Crest Department of Statistics UW Madison College of Letters & Science Search Menu open menu close About Expand Collapse Welcome and Diversity Contact and Location Jobs Alumni Department History Undergraduate Expand Collapse Courses and Enrollment Data Science Major Statistics Major Graduate Expand Collapse Graduate Admissions PhD Program MS Program Data Science Option Biometry Statistics Doctoral Minor Courses and Enrollment Research Expand Collapse Research Interests Seminars Conferences Technical Reports Affiliated Programs People Expand Collapse Faculty Staff Students and Alumni Undergraduate Statistics Club Graduate Student Club Resources Expand Collapse Learning Center Statistical Consulting Lab (CALS) Computing Expand Collapse Account Activation General Information Getting Help Statistics Computing Information High Throughput Computing Resources SCHOOL of COMPUTER, DATA & INFORMATION SCIENCES Support The Department of Statistics Home Faculty and Staff Faculty Sepplinen, Timo Timo Sepplinen Position title: Professor, Mathematics Email: seppalai@math.wisc.edu Phone: (608)-263-3624 Timo Sepplinen Website Education Ph.D. 1991 School of Mathematics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. M.Sc. 1986 Industrial Engineering and Management, Aalto University (formerly Helsinki University of Technology), Helsinki, Finland. High School Diploma 1980 Helsinki I Normal School, Helsinki, Finland. Research My research area is probability theory. My main work is in specialties such as motion in a random medium, first- and last-passage percolation, interacting particle systems, and large deviation theory. Preprints are available under Probability Theory in the Mathematics ArXiv A weekly probability seminar runs in the Mathematics Department. All interested are welcome. The probability group in the Mathematics Department. Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Welcome and Diversity Academics Research Interests Faculty List Staff Learning Center Contact UsUW Madison Department of Statistics 1300 University Ave Madison, WI 53706 USA Email: enroll@stat.wisc.edu Phone: (608) 262-2598 facebook twitter Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: lab@stat.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | 2020 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
