KTH | Alireza Farshin Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Alireza Farshin DOKTORAND Kungliga Tekniska Hgskolan https://www.kth.se/profile/farshin Detaljer Arbetar vid KOMMUNIKATIONSSYSTEM Telefon+46 8 790 42 69 AdressISAFJORDSGATAN 26 E-postfarshin@kth.se Rum 2409 Forskare Forskar-ID ORCID ID ResearcherID Scopus ID Google Scholar ID ResearchGate Om mig I am a doctoral student in the Network Systems Laboratory (NSLab) at KTH Royal Institute of Technology and I am doing research under the supervision of Professor Dejan Kostic and Professor Gerald Q. Maguire Jr. I have received my B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering (Electronics) from Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran, and my M.Sc. in Electrical Engineering (Digital Electronic Systems) from Amirkabir University of Technology, Tehran, Iran. My research interests include computer networks and networked systems. During my doctoral studies, I am trying to improve the performance of Network Function Virtualization (NFV) service chains by using low-level optimization techniques. You can read more in my licentiate thesis. Selected Publications [EuroSys'19] Make the Most out of Last Level Cache in Intel Processors (Acceptance Rate: 45/207 21.7%) We exploited the characteristics of non-uniform cache architecture (NUCA) in recent Intel processors to introduce a new memory management scheme. The results of our work showed that our proposed scheme could reduce the tail latencies in latency-critical Network Function Virtualization (NFV) service chains by 21.5%. Furthermore, our work demonstrated that optimizing the computer systems and taking advantage of nanosecond improvements could have a higher impact on the performance of networking applications. Please follow the links for thepaper, the presentation slides, theposter, and thevideo(EuroSys recording is also available here). This work has been featured in theEricsson Blog, Tech Xplore, AlphaGalileo,Twitter,KTH main page,and KTH EECS news. [ATC'20] Reexamining Direct Cache Access to Optimize I/O Intensive Applications for Multi-hundred-gigabit Networks (Acceptance Rate: 65/348 18.6%) We studythe current implementation of Direct Cache Access (DCA) in Intel processors, called Data Direct I/O (DDIO) technology. Our paper shows that it is important to understand the details of DDIO and to tune/optimize it appropriately for a given Internet service to achieve high-performance, especially with the introduction of multi-hundred-gigabit networks. A preliminary version of this paper has been presented in the EuroSys'20 poster session.Please follow the links for the ATC'20paper materials (i.e., paper+ slides + video) andthe EuroSys'20postermaterials (i.e., extended abstract + poster + video teaser). [ASPLOS'21] PacketMill: Toward per-core 100-Gbps Networking [To Appear] (Acceptance Rate: 75/398 18.8%) We present PacketMill, a system for optimizing software packet processing, which (i) introduces a new model to efficiently manage packet metadata and (ii) employs code-optimization techniques to better utilize commodity hardware. PacketMill grinds the whole packet processing stack, from the high-level network function configuration file to the low-level userspace network (specifically DPDK) drivers, to mitigate inefficiencies and produce a customized binary for a given network function. Our evaluation results show that PacketMill increases throughput (up to 36.4 Gbps- 70%) & reduces latency (up to 101 us-28%) and enables nontrivial packet processing (e.g., router) at 100 Gbps, when new packets arrive >10 faster than main memory access times, while using only one processing core. Please follow the linkfor the ASPLOS'21 extended abstract. Kurser Kommunikationssystem (IK2200), lrare | Kurswebb Publikationer Publikationslista Lnkar Curriculum Vitae &lparCV&rpar Linkedin GitHub dblp u1sop5xa Anml missbruk Anml missbruk Laddar formulr... Stng KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket Centrumbildningar Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
