KTH | Long Zhang Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Long Zhang DOKTORAND Kungliga Tekniska Hgskolan https://www.kth.se/profile/longz Detaljer Arbetar vid TEORETISK DATALOGI AdressLINDSTEDTSVGEN 5, PLAN 5 E-postlongz@kth.se Rum 1548 Forskare Forskar-ID ORCID ID Google Scholar ID Om mig Long Zhangis now a Ph.D. student in computer science funded by Wallenberg AI, Autonomous Systems and Software Program (WASP) at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden. He received his BE degree and ME degree in software engineering from Harbin Institute of Technology, China. Before graduation, Long got Tencent internship opportunities twice, with nearly 2 years practice in total engaging in software development. After that, as the youngest member of the team and the only graduates being exceptionally hired, he gradually converted from a developer to a project manager, who was responsible for talent cultivation cooperation projects between Tencent and universities, such as Tpai Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competitions, Rhino-bird Elite Graduate Program, etc. My research interests Chaos engineering, Self-healing software,Antifragile systems Work and study experience Manager of University Relations in Tencent (2015.07 ~ 2017.11) Assistant Engineer (Intern) in Tencent (2014.07 ~ 2015.07 2012.07 ~ 2013.07) Master andbachelor in software engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, China Brief Introduction to MyResearch Work I'm mainly focusing on software systems resilience problems. It's impossible to predict every failure or unanticipated situation of your system, especially when it is deployed into production. So it's quite important to improve system resilience, enabling it to bear and self-heal the perturbations. On the concept level, I'm using Chaos engineering to address this problem. Chaos engineering is the practice of experimenting on a distributed system in order to build confidence in the systems capability to withstand unexpected conditions in production. In another word, breaking things on purpose. We should change our perspective on errors, instead of preventing them all the time, but we trigger them in some controlled situation. On the delivery level, Ill implement a software system that could be easily combined with customers' applications. When the chaos system is running, it automatically monitors the target application and conducts chaos experiments, analyzes weakness points of resilience for the application. For example, we actively shut down one of the service instances, to check whether the routing node could smoothly redirect the traffic to other working ones. In this scenario, we get more chance to analyze and learn from system error handling behaviors, and finally improve its resilience. Keywords:chaos engineering, fault injection, monitoring,self-healing, reliability, availability, antifragile, software engineering Kurser Dataskerhet (DD2395), assistent | Kurswebb Kompilatorkonstruktion (DD2488), assistent | Kurswebb Programutvecklingsteknikens grunder (DD2480), assistent | Kurswebb Publikationer Publikationslista Lnkar WASP Martin Monperrus Personal Home Page Blog u1ehn029 Anml missbruk Anml missbruk Laddar formulr... Stng KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket Centrumbildningar Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
