KTH | Dena Hussain Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Dena Hussain UNIVERSITETSADJUNKT Kungliga Tekniska Hgskolan https://www.kth.se/profile/denah Detaljer Arbetar vid BERKNINGSVET & BERKNINGSTEKN Telefon+46 8 790 78 51 AdressLINDSTEDTSVGEN 5 E-postdenah@kth.se Forskare Forskar-ID ORCID ID Om mig I am a computer scientist with 15+ years of diverse experience, I have had the advantage of working in both the academic and cooperate environments in different parts of the world including England, Sweden and the Middle East, having the privilege of transferring and knowledge bridging experience. I have a Master of Science (M.Sc.) in Artificial neural networks, Computer Science (2001). Before taking up her current post I was Regional Office Manager and .Net team leader at Information Computer System's Ltd London (2005 - 2007) Jordan, Amman. In 2009 was a lecture and ICT pedagogy at University West, Trollhttan, Sweden until 2016.And was further more was Scrum Master at NEVS (National Electrical Vehicle of Sweden) Trollhttan Sweden 2016-2017. I have had the honer of winningthis year's winner of the EECS Prize 2020 for the ability to create impact in society by letting the students solve real problems in projects provided by Swedish organisations. Which was handed out by the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science's honorary nomination, at KTH. And have won first prize in Almi's regional competition "Pitch your idea" 2016 for the project iSMART in addition to winning first prize for the regional inventor entrepreneurs by Innovatum Incubator 2016. I have also received the award for Best Presentation at the "IT and Engineering Pedagogy" ITEPconference track at IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference 'EDUCON' 2016. Current research interests are primarily based in advancing computer science in digitization and utilization of ICT for Inclusion qualities. Kurser Databasteknik fr D (DD1368), examinator, kursansvarig, lrare | Kurswebb Mjukvarukonstruktion (DD1393), examinator, kursansvarig, lrare | Kurswebb Programsammanhllande kurs i datateknik (DD1390), assistent | Kurswebb Programsammanhllande kurs i datateknik (DD1391), assistent | Kurswebb Programvarukonstruktion i projektform (DD1369), examinator, kursansvarig | Kurswebb Publikationer Publikationslista u1cvepfl Anml missbruk Anml missbruk Laddar formulr... Stng KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket Centrumbildningar Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
