KTH | Sotirios Katsikeas Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Sotirios Katsikeas DOKTORAND Kungliga Tekniska Hgskolan https://www.kth.se/profile/sotkat Detaljer Arbetar vid NTVERK OCH SYSTEMTEKNIK AdressTEKNIKRINGEN 33 E-postsotkat@kth.se Rum 3334 Forskare Forskar-ID ORCID ID Scopus ID Om mig Today we are so greatly dependent on technology that we no longer remember how our life would have been without it. Take the following scenario as an example, suddenly you see that you do not have internet access although you have electricity and your router seems to be working. The problem is not on your side but on the central servers of your internet provider. They have been attacked and as a result half of the country is without a usable internet connection. Another scenario could be that you suddenly are without electricity and internet, you think it will be temporary but one hour has passed and no official information has reached you. You are starting to feel worried and you turn on a radio on Sveriges Radio only to find out that this is the result of an extensive cyber attack on the country's power grid. All the above are possible scenarios in case of a cyber attack. The best way to be protected against such attack is cyber security awareness and preparedness. And how can this be done? By cyber security modeling and attack simulations. This means that a model of the actual system is created and then attack simulations are performed so that the vulnerable elements of the system to be detected. By doing this we can then improve the system's design and make more secure effectively stopping the possible attacks. This is what my topic of research is. Currently, I am working towards a Ph.D. degree here at KTH, in the Division of Network and Systems Engineering and my main field of research is cyber securitymodeling and interoperability modeling together with cyber attack simulations. My main supervisor is professor Pontus Johnson and we belong to the Software Systems Architecture and Security research group. Below you can also find some information about my academic career so far. I have received my Diploma (5-year program) in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the homonym school at Technical University of Crete, Chania, Greece. Then I finished my postgraduate studies with a M.Sc inSchool of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciencefrom KTH Royal Institute of Technology in 2018. Kurser Avancerad etisk hackning (FEP3370), assistent | Kurswebb Etisk hackning (EN2720), assistent | Kurswebb Etisk hackning (EP272U), assistent | Kurswebb Etisk hackning (EP273U), assistent | Kurswebb Etisk hackning I (EP274U), assistent | Kurswebb Etisk hackning II (EP275U), assistent | Kurswebb Publikationer Publikationslista u1b2g8nt Anml missbruk Anml missbruk Laddar formulr... Stng KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket Centrumbildningar Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
