KTH | Jonas Haglund Hoppa till huvudinnehllet Profiler Student Alumn Anstlld Profiles in English Hem Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Bibliotek Sk p KTH:s webbplatsSk KTH Profiler Jonas Haglund DOKTORAND Kungliga Tekniska Hgskolan https://www.kth.se/profile/jhagl Detaljer Arbetar vid TEORETISK DATALOGI AdressLINDSTEDTSVGEN 5, PLAN 5 E-postjhagl@kth.se Forskare Forskar-ID ORCID ID Om mig I am PhD student supervised by Roberto Guanciale, and a member of the STEP research group at TCS/KTH. After my master in computer science at KTH, I was at RISE SICS in Kista, Sweden, for 6 months working in the PROSPER project, and then started my PhD at KTH. During my master's thesis, at RISE SICS and the first part of my PhD, I worked on memory isolation of a network interface controller. My future research goals concern: Modeling: For instance, automate construction of hardware and software models (from formal hardware and software descriptions, e.g. VHDL and binary code), thereby enabling fast generation of reliable (less bugs compared to handmade) models and analysis of detailed properties (e.g. implications of order of operations, atomicity/granularity of operations and execution time of operations). Analysis: For instance, identify and automate proofs of properties of hardware subcomponents that can be used to prove (safety/security/functional correctness) properties about hardware containing those subcomponents. My main learning interests are: Computer hardware (design, electronics and physics). Computer systems software (hypervisors/OS/device drivers/compilers). Mathematical logic (logic/foundations of mathematics/philosophy). Formal analysis of computers (software and hardware; and mathematics) with interactive theorem proving (modeling and proving, including development of tools for automation). Kurser Algoritmer, datastrukturer och komplexitet (DD2350), assistent | Kurswebb Logik fr dataloger (DD1351), assistent | Kurswebb u136pue9 Anml missbruk Anml missbruk Laddar formulr... Stng KTH Utbildning Forskning Samverkan Om KTH Aktuellt Student p KTH Alumni KTH Intrant Organisation KTH Biblioteket Centrumbildningar Gemensamt verksamhetsstd Tjnster Schema Kurs-, program- och gruppwebbar Lrplattformen Canvas Webbmejl KTH 100 44 Stockholm +46 8 790 60 00 Kontakta KTH Jobba p KTH Press och media Faktura och betalning KTH p Facebook KTH p YouTube Kontakta webbansvarig Om KTH:s webbplats
