Carl Knowlen | Aeronautics and Astronautics Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW Today Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington UW W Logo Aeronautics and Astronautics Wordmark Logo Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map UW Links Menu Search Main menu About Us About Us Quick Facts Our Values Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Visiting A&A Buildings & Directions Employment Undergraduate Education & ABET Accreditation K-12 Outreach Contact Us People People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles Research Research Research Programs Senior Capstone Projects Industry Sponsorship Facilities Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News & Events News Events Calendar Distinguished Speaker Series AA 395 Undergraduate Seminars Highflight Magazine Admissions Admissions Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships, Fellowships and Funding Students Students Academics Housing Scholarships, Fellowships and Funding Student Employment Student Resources A&A Student Clubs Career Support Additional Links Additional Links Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map Search Search Give Give Quick Links Quick Links GIVE Alumni Industry MyA&A Site Map People People Carl Knowlen Research Associate Professor Aeronautics & Astronautics knowlen@aa.washington.edu (206) 543-7159 AER 136 Ram Accelerator Biography Carl Knowlen received his bachelors and masters degrees in Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering from the University of Washington in 1983 and 1985, respectively. He continued with his graduate research on ram accelerators at the UW and completed his Ph.D. program in 1991. Dr. Knowlen then accepted a Postdoctoral Research Associate position with the UW Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics where he expanded his research endeavors to include shockwave chemical reactors. In 1996 he was invited to spend three months in Japan by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science where he collaborated with faculty at both Tohoku University and Hiroshima University on ram accelerators and related technologies. Upon his return to the UW, Dr. Knowlen moved into the professional staff ranks as a Research Scientist and then Senior Research Scientist in 2003. He has been teaching AA Department courses on a regular basis since 2002 and was appointed to his current position as a Research Associate Professor in 2015.Dr. Knowlens research activities are related to energy conversion, combustion physics, and hypervelocity propulsion. His interests includethe investigation of phenomena associated with high speed objects passing through combustible mixtures, which is a complicated field of study with many near and long term applications. Modeling reactive systems provides detailed flow characteristics that cannot be resolved by experiment, yet observations of the phenomena arising in experiments are essential to guiding modeling efforts. Joint modeling and experimental research are major trademarks of Dr. Knowlen's investigations, who is currently involved in research programs on the ram accelerator hypervelocity mass driver, shockwave reactor for hydrocarbon upgrading, control techniques for the continuous rotating detonation engine, developing green propellant technologies for microthrusters, and cryogenic energy storage systems. Education PhD, AA Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle MSAA, University of Washington, Seattle BSAA, University of Washington, Seattle News AIAA student conference awards Two A&A papers won recognitionfromthe 2020 AIAA Region VI Student Conference. Read Article RDE breakthrough featured in Wired A&A's James Koch figures out the mathematical model that explains the patterns in a rotating detonation engine. Read Article Popular Mechanics covers A&A research Popular Mechanics delves into James Koch's mathematical breakthrough explaining the behavior of a rotating detonation engine. Read Article More efficient rockets Ph.D. student James Koch's research on rotating detonation engines may aid in building cheaper, lighter spacecraft. Read Article More News People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emeriti Postdocs Visiting Committee Student Profiles AA research areas Fluids Research interests Energy Conversion Combustion Physics Hypervelocity Propulsion UW College of Engineering Centered CoE Wordmark logo Be Boundless Connect with us: UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2020 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA
