Sung-Hou Kim | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Sung-Hou Kim Sung-Hou Kim Professor of the Graduate School 419 Latimer Hall, Department of Chemistry,University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA, 94720 sunghou@berkeley.edu or shkim@cchem.berkeley.edu(510) 708-2564 Current Research Interests A. Construction of whole genome phylogeny of all organisms, Tree of Life. The first task is to develop one or more methods for comparing whole genome sequences of two organisms, not just a few highly conserved gene or protein sequences, as currently practiced in Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA) method. Our starting point was treating each whole genome sequence as a book consisting of a single string of alphabets for each chromosome without spaces between words. My group developed the Feature Frequency Profile (FFP) method, which is a variation of Word Frequency Profile method, commonly used when comparing two books using Natural Language Analysis algorithms. Using the FFP method we were able to construct phylogenic trees of two of the most diverse and large groups of Life, Prokaryotes (Archaea and Bacteria combined) and Fungi (the largest kingdom of Eukarya) at a high resolution. When compared to those trees based on MSA methods, our results revealed high similarities in grouping (clading) at the species level, but substantial differences in evolutionary branching order of the clades at deeper evolutionary levels. Our next project is to construct the Tree of Life for all living organisms for which whole genome sequences are available. B. Whole genome variation of Human species. Most regions of genomes of normal human cells have been found to have the same sequences among individuals, but a small fraction, spread throughout the genome, have variations within a population. Of these, the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) account for the largest number of variations and, have been identified in over 3 million genomic tag positions out of 3 billion positions in a whole haploid genome. It has been widely accepted that the analysis of SNPs may be able to allow one to predict the genomic component of the disease susceptibility of individuals to complex diseases such as cancers, neurological diseases, autoimmune diseases and other traits. So far, the results from the current analysis methods (e.g. Genome-wide Association Studies method) and interpretation of the results have yielded information of limited predictive value of practical utility for making health-related decisions at individual or population level without information of family histories. Recognizing the complexity and heterogeneity of cancer mechanisms, we have developed, using SNPs, an empirical approach using supervised machine-learning, a branch of Artificial Intelligence, for predicting the relative genomic susceptibility of an individual to 9 traits consisting of 8 major cancer classes plus a healthy class. The multiclass accuracy of the combined prediction ranges from 33 to 56% depending on cancer classes of testing sets, as compared to 11% for a random prediction among 9 traits. Despite limited SNP data available and absence of rare SNPs in public databases at present, the results suggest that the framework of this approach or its improvement can predict the cancer susceptibility with probability estimates useful for making health-decisions for individuals or for a population. Similar approaches are being applied to predict genomic susceptibility for neurological diseases and autoimmune diseases. Biography Born 1937 B.S. (1960) M.S. (1962) Seoul National University, Korea Ph.D. University of Pittsburgh (1966) Research Associate M.I.T. (1966-70) Senior Research Scientist M.I.T. (1970-72) Assistant and Associate Professor, Biochemistry, Duke University (1972-78) Professor and Professor of Graduate Studies, Department of Chemistry, UC Berkeley (1978--) Faculty Scientist, Physical Biosciences Division, LBNL, Berkeley (1979--) Fulbright Fellow (1962) N.I.H. Research Career Development Award (1976-79) Miller Research Professorship (UC Berkeley, 1983) Guggenheim Fellow (1985) E.O. Lawrence Award (US Department of Energy, 1987) Princess Takamatsu Award (Tokyo, Japan, 1989) The HoAm Prize ( Samsung Foundation, Korea, 1994) Fellow, American Academy of Arts & Sciences (1994) Member, U.S. National Academy of Sciences (1994) Korean Academy of Science and Technology Prize in Science ( Korea, 2000) Legacy Laureate Award, University of Pittsburgh (2005) The Pride of Seoul National Univ. Alumni Award (Seoul, Korea, 2006) Department of Chemistry Alumni Award, Univ. of Pittsburgh (2008) Alexander Rich Medal, M.I.T. (2014) Member American Society of Biological Chemists, American Crystallography Association, American Chemical Society, and Biophysical Society More Information The following files are available for download in PDF format: Curriculum vitae Publication List Evolution of Research Interests Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
