Ignacio Tinoco | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Ignacio Tinoco Ignacio Tinoco Professor of the Graduate School (1930-2016) Video Tributes to Ignacio Tinoco Video presented to Nacho on the occasion of his 85th birthday.Video shown at the 2016 Tinoco Symposium. email: intinoco@lbl.gov office: 121 Lewis Hall office phone: 510-642-3038labs: 104 Lewis Hall lab phone: 510-642-1440 post doc office: 101 Lewis Hall Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Biophysical Chemistry, Nucleic Acids, Single Molecules Physical methods are used to determine the structures of nucleic acids and illuminate the biological functions they control. The sequence of nucleotides in a nucleic acid determines its structure and function; Professor Tinoco and his students want to deduce these fundamental properties from the sequence. Important questions are: What folded, base-paired structure of an RNA is specified by the sequence? How do RNA loops interact with each other, or with double-stranded regions to form compact three-dimensional structures? What proteins, drugs, and ions do these structures bind? How do the sequence and structure affect the functions of ribosomal RNA's, the sites of processing of RNA, the translation of messenger RNA's, the replication of RNA viruses, and the catalytic abilities of RNA enzymes? Our main emphasis is single-molecule measurements. A single RNA is held between beads and force is applied to unfold it in any chosen condition. The work done in unfolding the RNA provides the free energy of the reaction in the chosen environment. The kinetics of the reaction can also be obtained. We have recently started studies of protein translation by individual ribosomes. Translation occurs by a series of steps with translocations of approximately 0.1 s followed by pauses of order 1 s. We are learning the effects of messenger RNA sequence and structure, and of antibiotics, on translation, in particular on the mechanism of frameshifting. Biography Ignacio Tinoco received a Bachelor's degree from the University of New Mexico in 1951, and a Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin, Madison in 1954. He was a postdoctoral fellow with John Kirkwood at Yale University from 1954-56. He joined the University of California, Berkeley as a faculty member in 1956, where he is presently a Professor in the Graduate School. He was Chairman of the Chemistry Department (1979-82). His honors and awards include: Guggenheim Fellow, Medical Research Council Laboratory, Cambridge (1964); California Section Award, American Chemical Society (1965); D.Sc. University of New Mexico (1972); Member, National Academy of Sciences (1985); Elisabeth R. Cole Award, Biophysical Society (1996); Berkeley Citation, University of California (1996); Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences (2001); Founders Award, Biophysical Society (2006); Fellow: American Physical Society, Biophysical Society. Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
