Richard A. Andersen | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Richard A. Andersen Richard A. Andersen Richard A. Anderson (1942 - 2019) In Memoriam It is with great sadness we report the passing of Professor Richard Andersen. Dick was a true scholar of the field, and he will be remembered by all of us as a dedicated colleague, an energetic teacher, and a good friend. He will be greatly missed. Read more > Professor of Chemistry email: raandersen@lbl.govoffice: 537 Latimer Hallphone: (510) 642-4452 Research Interests Synthetic structural, mechanistic organometallic, and inorganic chemistry of the d- and f-block metals is being studied and used to prepare molecules with unique stereochemistry and reactivity. The Andersen research group is primarily interested in synthesis and reactions of molecules that alter the way chemists think. The traditional view of the f-block metals is that they do not form compounds with pi-backbonding ligands, such as CO. This classical view is no longer tenable since CO does bind to these metals, in their metallocene derivatives, with small but measurable bond enthalpies. A molecule that is somewhat similar to CO in its' ability ot act as a pi-acceptor ligand is bipyridyl. The f-block metallocene derivatives of this ligand is used to change the population of various electron-exchange tautomers, which in turn changes their equilibrium population. Thus, the chemical identity and reaction chemistry of each species can be studied. Studies such as these are defining new ways to look at f-element chemistry. New preparations of f-block metallocenes with pi-donors, such as oxo and imido ligands, make available these multiply bonded species for reactions chemistry which is important in oxidation chemistry. Biography Professor (born 1942) B.A. University of South Dakota (1965) Ph.D. University of Wyoming (1973) Post-doctoral Fellow, Imperial College (London) with Professor G. Wilkinson (1974-76) Member Chemical Society (London), ACS, Sigma Xi Faculty Senior Scientist, Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Alexander von Humboldt Senior Scientist/Germany (1994) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
