Michelle C. Chang | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Michelle C. Chang Michelle C. Chang Professor of ChemistryProfessor of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering mcchang@berkeley.eduoffice: 125 Lewis Hallphone: 510.642.8545fax: 510.642.9863lab: 110 and 124 Lewis Halllab phone: 510.642.8546student/post doc office: 110 and 124 Lewis Hall The Chang GroupRecent Publications Research Interests Biochemistry, Chemical Biology, and Synthetic Biology Designing new biosynthetic pathways for in vivo cellular production of biofuels and pharmaceuticals Our research laboratory utilizes the approaches of mechanistic biochemistry, molecular and cell biology, metabolic engineering, and synthetic biology to address problems in energy and human health. We design and create new biosynthetic pathways in microbial hosts for in vivo production of biofuels from abundant crop feedstocks and pharmaceuticals from natural products or natural product scaffolds. A unifying theme of all of our projects is a focus on gaining a detailed molecular understanding of how living cells control enzymatic processes within the context of the entire metabolic network. Specific projects under current investigation include (i) the in vivo production of biofuels from plant biomass, and (ii) the development of new biosynthetic methods for selective, catalytic C-F bond formation under mild conditions. Biofuels Sustainable energy is a significant challenge facing our planet and securing carbon-neutral sources of energy is essential to meeting growing energy demands while addressing environmental concerns. Energy and fuels produced from plant biomass offer an important renewable solution to this problem and also allow reduction in the overall release of greenhouse gases. We are constructing new biosynthetic pathways in bacterial hosts that can convert plant biomass into fuel molecules. Using synthetic biology methods, we can draw enzymes from a variety of different environmental organisms and combine them in a single genetically-engineered host. This mix-and-match approach allows us to create and tailor new biological tools for multi-step, multi-enzyme chemical synthesis. Enzymatic Fluorinations Natural products and their scaffolds continue to provide a rich source for the discovery and development of new therapeutics to treat human conditions ranging from cancer to neurodegeneration to microbial infections. In this regard, halogenated natural products (vancomycin and chloramphenicol) as well as synthetic drugs (Prozac, Lipitor, Cipro) encompass a growing class of important organohalogen-based pharmaceuticals. Organofluorine compounds are of particular interest as the introduction of C-F bonds can tune drug activity and specificity as well as in vivo metabolism of drugs. However, one of the major limitations in drug development is ability to selectively form C-F bonds as the available chemical methods for fluorination are difficult and typically carried out with harsh reagents without sufficient control over regio- or stereospecificity. We are developing new biocatalysts for selective and efficient C-F bond formation under mild conditions through the isolation, characterization, and mechanistic investigation of new enzymes involved in biological halogenations. These designer enzymes will have broad impact as synthetic tools for drug discovery and development. Biography Professor of Chemistry B.S., Biochemistry, B.A., French Literature, University of California, San Diego (1997) National Science Foundation Predoctoral Fellow (1997-2000) M.I.T./Merck Foundation Predoctoral Fellow (2000-2002) Ph.D. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2004) Jane Coffin Childs Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley (2004-2007) Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation New Faculty Award (2007) Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation Young Investigator Award (2008) Technology Review TR35 Young Innovator Award (2008) BayBio Rising Star Award (2008) NSF CAREER (2009) Agilent Early Career Award (2010) Hellman Foundation Faculty Award (2010) American Chemical Society-Sociedade Brasileira de Qumica Young Talents in Science Award (2011) NIH New Innovator Award (2011) DARPA Young Faculty Award (2012) Iota Sigma Pi Agnes Fay Morgan Award (2012) Paul Saltman Award in Bioinorganic Chemistry (2013) 3M Young Faculty Award (2013) Camille Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar Award (2013) Arthur Cope Scholar Award (2015) Pfizer Award in Enzyme Chemistry (2016) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
