Richmond Sarpong | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Richmond Sarpong Richmond Sarpong Professor of Chemistry email: rsarpong@berkeley.edu office: 841A Latimer phone: 510.643.6312 fax: 510.642.9675 lab: 837, 843, 847, 849 Latimer lab phone: 510.643.2485 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Organic and Organometallic Chemistry Total synthesis of biologically active and architecturally complex natural products as a platform for the development of new synthetic methods and strategies. Central to our research interests is the total synthesis of natural products with a keen eye toward the development of new synthetic methods and strategies. In concert with this general program, we look to nature to inspire our choice of synthetic targets (natural products) and some of our strategies (e.g., bio-mimetic approaches) to natural product synthesis. The compounds that we synthesize in our laboratory may ultimately become important as tools to study biological systems or provide a starting point for the development of therapeutics. The challenge of a total synthesis provides a unique opportunity to test the limits of synthetic methodology and to invent new reactions. The formation of carbon-carbon bonds (C-C bonds) is of fundamental importance to synthetic organic chemistry. Our group seeks to address some of the current limitations in synthetic organic chemistry by defining new directions for C-C bond formation and then validating our methodology in the arena of complex molecule synthesis. In this regard, we are interested in (A) C-C bond forming processes that are coupled with the energetically 'downhill' events of strain release and aromatization to provide new strategies to access natural product motifs, (B) the generation of metal vinylidenes under mild reaction conditions as a new entry into C-H functionalization and (C) novel access to reactive intermediates such as metallo-carbenoids and radicals. Ultimately, we anticipate that our interests will evolve, depending on a student's interest or fascinating new transformations that we encounter. Among the natural products currently of interest in our group are the teleocidin B family of indole alkaloids (potent protein kinase C tumor promoters), the cyathane diterpenoids scabronine A and erinacine E (active stimulants of nerve growth factor biosynthesis) and the trichothecane sesquiterpenoids verrucarin A and satratoxin H which are mycotoxins that also possess cytotoxic properties. Biography Born 1974 B.A. (Chemistry) Macalester College (1995) Ph.D. Organic Chemistry, Princeton University (2001) UNCF-Pfizer Postdoctoral Fellow, Caltech, 2000-2004 Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
