Charles B. Harris | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Charles B. Harris Charles B. Harris It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Professor Charles B. Harris (1940-2020). In Memoriam Professor of the Graduate School Professor Emeritus email: cbharris@berkeley.edu office: D87 Hildebrand phone: 510.642.2814 fax: 510.642.6724 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Physical Chemistry Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Dynamics Surface Science Femtosecond lasers in the visible and infrared are used to study energy transfer, relaxation, and primary processes in chemical reactions in liquids and the dynamical properties of electrons at interfaces and surfaces on ultrafast timescales. Research projects going on in the group are two-fold. They include the study of the statistical or dynamical basis of chemical reactions in condensed phase on the femtosecond time scale and the dynamics and properties of electrons on surfaces and at interfaces. Femtosecond lasers and ultrahigh vacuum technology provide a unique opportunity to study the dynamics of electrons at metal-dielectric and metal-semiconductor interfaces. The femtosecond two-photon photoemission (TPPE) technique utilizes a femtosecond pump pulse to excite electrons from the metal substrate into states associated with the surface. Photoemission of the surface electrons with a second femtosecond pulse allows one to follow the various surface properties in real time since the photoemission intensity as a function of time delay between the pump and the probe pulse directly reveals the dynamics of the surface electron population. Layer-by-layer growth of dielectrics and large band gap semiconductors on metal surfaces influences the binding energies, lifetimes, and spatial distributions of electrons on surfaces and at interfaces. Studies of Xe overlayers have shown the evolution of metal surface states into quantum well states. Overlayers of n-alkanes result in self-trapping of initially delocalized electrons into localized small polarons. We have studied two dimensional solvation of electrons interacting with nitrile and alcohol overlayers on silver surfaces. Current studies focus on extending our understanding of electronic structure and dynamics to technologically important systems. In general these methods enable us to study the dynamics of electrons interacting with condensed matter in 2-D and how the properties change as the system evolves into 3-D. The second area, femtosecond infrared and ultraviolet and visible spectroscopic methods are utilized to investigate the dynamics of complex chemical reactions in solution. The most basic reactions in solution share certain reaction processes, which include dissociation, recombination, solvent caging, molecular morphology changes, and system-solvent interaction. These molecular events, which underlie our basic understanding of reaction dynamics, occur on ultrafast (10-13-10-10 s) timescales. Our research utilizes femtosecond experimental techniques along with modern computational methods to study these fundamental issues. The femtosecond infrared lasers developed in our group enable us to study a variety of chemical systems in both the time and spectral domain and as such we can follow elementary chemical reaction events as they occur. There are also workstations capable of carrying out large-scale, high-level quantum chemical calculations and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Theoretical methods including ab initio and density functional theory (DFT) as well as MD are utilized to assist interpretation and realization of experimental results. The combined experimental and theoretical approach leads to a deeper understanding of these fundamental processes. Not only do the results of these studies address the issues outlined above, but they are also of interest to researchers throughout the many subdisciplines in chemistry including biological, organometallic, inorganic, and organic chemistry. In many instances the theoretical basis for the experiments and observations must also be developed. As a result graduate students from Professor Harris's group often obtain their Ph.D. with a strong background in both theory and experiment. Biography Born 1940 B.S. University of Michigan (1963) Ph.D. Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1966) Atomic Energy Commission Fellow in Physics and Chemistry, MIT (1967) American Optical Society Award in Applied Spectroscopy (1967) Alfred P. Sloan Fellow (1970) Jan van Guensfonds Professor, University of Amsterdam (1973) Fellow of the American Physical Society (1978) Alexander van Humboldt Fellow (1980) Distinguished Lecturer: University of Texas (1981) Miller Research Professor, University of California, Berkeley (1984) Pittsburgh Spectroscopy Award (1990) Member; Fellow of the Optical Society of America (1994) Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Science (1997) Vice Chair of the Chemical Physics Division of the APS (1999) Reilly Lectures, Notre Dame (1999) Chair of the Chemical Physics Division of the APS (2000) Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (2001) National Academy of Sciences (2002) Former Member of the Advisory Boards: Journal of Chemical Physics, Journal of Physical Chemistry, Chemical Physics and Molecular Physics Faculty Senior Scientist, Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
