Dean Toste | College of Chemistry Skip to main content UC Berkeley Toggle navigation College of Chemistry Search Terms Submit Search The College The central mission of the College of Chemistry is to advance society through education and research, and we have made it our responsibility to fulfill this mission, year in and year out, for more than 140 years. Overview College Leadership History Facts Centers & Institutes Major Awards & Honors Endowed Lectureships Endowed Chairs & Professorships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Academics Our two departments provide fundamental and applied studies of an outstanding caliber. The remarkable breadth and depth of resources available to our students readies them as chemists and chemical engineers to address societys most urgent 21st-century issues. Overview Undergraduate Degrees Prospective Undergraduates Undergraduate Student Services CBE Graduate Programs Chemistry Graduate Programs Professional Education Guiding Outstanding Learners to Discover (GOLD) Faculty & Research College faculty have been leaders at the frontiers of knowledge since 1872. Current pioneering research includes premier programs in catalysis, thermodynamics, chemical biology, atmospheric chemistry, the development of polymer, optical and semiconductor materials, and nanoscience, among others. Overview Chemistry Faculty Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Faculty Research Facilities News & Publications Check out College of Chemistry news articles and featured videos, as well as our biannual college magazine, Catalyst. Overview News Catalyst Magazine Featured Videos Events College Relations The College of Chemistry is consistently ranked as one of the best places on earth to learn, teach, and create new tools in the chemical sciences.This is no accident. Its the direct result of exceptional scholarship as well as thousands and thousands of donations from our loyal alumni and friends. Overview Capital Campaign Impact Report Industry Partners & Recruiters Advisory Board Berkeley Ecosystems Donors In Memoriam Giving Secondary navigation Home Chemistry Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Quick Links Quick Links Admin & Support Emergency Info Building Access Facilities Operations College Directory Research Safety College Library Seminars & Events Contact Us Single Sign-On Apps You are hereHome Faculty & Research Chemistry Faculty Faculty Dean Toste Dean Toste The Gerald E. K. Branch Distinguished Professor OF Chemistry email: fdtoste@berkeley.edu office: 627 Latimer phone: 510.642.2850 Research Group Recent Publications Research Interests Organic, Organometallic Chemistry Organic and organometallic chemistry are employed in the development of new synthetic methods, enantioselective catalysts and strategies for the synthesis of natural products. Research in my group is primarily aimed toward the development of catalysts and catalytic reactions and methods for organic synthesis. Ultimately, we are interested in using these methods to address problems in the synthesis of complex molecules possessing interesting structural, biological and physical properties. As such, our research program spans the areas of organic synthesis, catalysis, and organometallic chemistry. Two mechanistically distinct applications of complexes with metal-ligand multiple bonds are illustrative of our approach. First, we envision a new approach to catalysis utilizing transition metal-ligand pi-bonds to activate sigma-bonds towards addition reactions. We are also examining metal-ligand and ancillary ligand combinations with the ultimate goal of developing enantioselective versions of these reactions. The concept of employing complexes containing metal-ligand multiple bonds as bifunctional catalysts for sigma-bond activation represents a dramatic shift from the traditional applications of metal-oxo complexes as catalysts for atom transfer (epoxidations, aziridinations and dihydroxylation) and for functional group oxidations. Second, we are developing metal-dioxo complexes as catalysts for three-component cycloadditions in which the oxo ligand is one of the partners. We are applying these cycloaddition reactions to the synthesis of natural products such as kallolide A (anti-inflammatory and cytotoxic properties). A second area of research is the development of new catalysts and synthetic methods for the formation of carbon-carbon and carbon-heteroatom bonds. Of particular interest are addition reactions including additions to olefins and alkynes, alkene-alkene coupling and other atom transfer additions. For example, we are investigating catalytic methods for the addition of water and alcohols to enones as an alternative entry into aldol adducts. Our ultimate goal is to develop enantioselective variants of these reactions and utilize them in the synthesis of natural products such as epoxyquinol (antiangiogenic activity), the eudesmanolides (antitumor) and the amphidinolides (cytotoxic). Biography B.Sc., M.Sc., University of Toronto, 1993, 1995 Ph.D. Stanford University, 2000 Postdoctoral fellow, Caltech, 2001-2002 Roche Award for Excellence in Chemistry (1999) Nobel Laureate Signature Award (2002) Camille and Henry Dreyfus New Faculty Award (2002) Research Corporation, Research Innovation Award (2002) Boehringer-Ingelheim New Faculty Award (2003) Amgen New Faculty Award (2003) GlaxoSmithKline Chemistry Scholar Award (2004) Eli Lilly Grantee Award (2004) Dupont Young Investigator Award (2004) Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Fellowship (2005) BMS Unrestricted Grant in Synthetic Organic Chemistry (2005) NSF CAREER Award (2005) Advancing society through education and research COLLEGE OF CHEMISTRY 420 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5060Map Undergraduate Student Services 121 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 664-5264 Dept of Chemistry Graduate Office419 Latimer HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1460(510) 642-5882 Dept of CHEMICAL & BIOMOLECULAR ENGINEERING Graduate Office201 Gilman HallUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720-1462(510) 642-2291 Administration & Support Admin, Finance, Receiving, Technology Building Access College Relations Engineering & Facilities Information for StaffInformation TechnologyStaff DirectoryJobsContact Us UC Berkeley Berkeley Main Page Campus Administration NewsCenter The Campaign for Berkeley Visiting Berkeley Campus Events Campus Map Home Follow us:Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Copyright 2020 UC Regents; all rights reserved Powered by Open Berkeley Privacy Statement Back to Top
