Charles L. Cooney MIT Chemical Engineering Skip to content Toggle navigation arrow-right About Mission Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion What is Chemical Engineering? History Open Positions Public Service & Outreach Photo Gallery Video Gallery People Faculty Students Postdoctoral Associates Staff Recruit Our Students Meet Our Community Academics Graduate Study Why MIT ChemE? Graduate Programs Financial Support Apply Undergraduate Study Why Chemical Engineering? Undergraduate Programs Why 10-ENG/Flexible Degree? UROP Apply Course Schedule ACCESS Program FAQs Professional Ethics The Practice School MIT Professional Education Research Biomedical and Biotechnology Catalysis and Reaction Engineering Energy Environment and Sustainability Materials Math and Computational Systems Transport and Thermodynamics News & Events News Events Seminar Series Student Seminar Hottel Lecture Lewis Lecture Michaels Lecture Wang Lecture Alumni Alumni Newsletter Support Course X Alumni Contact Faculty Openings Resources COVID-19 Dept. Resources Student Office Computer & Digital Learning Support Student Resources Community News Career Advice and Support Faculty Resources Postdoc & Visitor Resources ChemE Communications Lab Administrative Resources Laboratory Safety Room Reservations Public Service & Outreach Opportunity Contact Us Alumnus AlumnusCharles L. CooneyProfessor Emeritus phone617.253.3108fax617.258.6876emailccooney@mit.eduroom56-469B Download CV Support StaffNicholas Pasinella As an undergraduate, I began life as a chemical engineer to satisfy my quest to solve problems and quickly realized as a discipline it offered much more. The core of chemical engineering is a foundation on which one can explore new frontiers and for me this was biology and biochemical engineering. The systems thinking and quantitative skills allowed me to follow a path in bioprocessing and pharmaceutical manufacturing that continues to unfold in exciting new directions over a 50 year career. Research Interests biochemical engineering Education Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1970 S.M., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1967 B.S., University of Pennsylvania, 1966 Publications Honors and Awards Honoris Causa by Ramon Llull University in Barcelona, 2012 Dieter & Inga Koehn Lecture, 2010 Fellow of the American Chemical Society, 2009 Founding Fellow, American Institute for Medical & Biological Engineering, 1992 Institute of Biotechnological Studies, 1989 Gold Medal James Van Lannen Award for Distinguished Service to the Division of Microbial & Biochemical Technology of the American Chemical Society, 1985 Food, Pharmaceutical & Bioengineering Division Award, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 1983. Becten-Dickenson Award lecturer, American Society for Microbiology, 1977 Listed in Who's Who in Frontiers of Science & Technology Listed in American Men of Science Sigma Xi CONTACT Massachusetts Institute of Technology Department of Chemical Engineering 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room 66-350 Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 Accessibility | Site Map CONNECT SEARCH Search for: 2007-2020 MIT Department of Chemical EngineeringCredits
