R. Byron Pipes - Materials Engineering R. Byron Pipes - Materials Engineering Skip to main content Main Menu Main Menu Search Purdue Engineering MSE For You For You Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Research and Innovation Faculty and Staff Partnerships Alumni About Us About Us History of MSE What is Materials Engineering? Mission Statement Got Materials? The Boilermaker Materials Trivia Quiz Student Societies News Event & Departmental Pictures Upcoming Seminars Contact Us Our People Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff MSE Faculty Emeriti MSE Courtesy Appointments MSE Adjunct Faculty Our Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information: Hail to Old Purdue! Faculty Books Published Academics Academics Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Students Graduate Program Graduate Students Course Catalog Upcoming Seminars Research Research Research Areas Labs & Facilities Undergraduate Research Laboratory Safety Information Lab Reservations Giving Giving Materials Engineering Endowments Make a Gift Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Medium Podcast Materials Engineering Purdue Engineering MSE Our People R. Byron Pipes John L. Bray Distinguished Professor of Engineering Contact Information Office: 1105 Challenger Avenue, West Lafayette, IN Phone: +1 765 49-45767 E-mail: bpipes@purdue.edu Research Group Web Site Curriculum Vitae School of Materials Engineering Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering 701 West Stadium Avenue West Lafayette, IN 47907-2045 WebEx Link Dr. R. Byron Pipes was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1987 in recognition of his development of an exemplary model for relationships between corporate, academic and government sectors to foster research and education in the field of composite materials. As co-founder and director of the Center for Composite Materials at the University of Delaware, he developed an industrial consortium of over forty corporate sponsors from the USA, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, United Kingdom, Belgium, Sweden and Finland. Today, almost 40 years after its founding, the University of Delaware Center is the largest and most successful of its kind in the United States. Research expenditures have exceeded $100 million. Dr. Pipes developed the Composites Design and Manufacturing HUB (cdmHUB) to meet the simulation needs of the growing composites industry in 2013. To date, the cdmHUB is supported by five corporate sponsors (Boeing, Rolls Royce, Cytec, Dassault Systemes and Henkel) and DARPA. His most recent research programs focus on the development of composites manufacturing with emphasis on additive manufacturing. He currently leads the Indiana Center of Excellence of the DOE Institute for Advanced Composites Manufacturing Innovation (IACMI), chairs the Technology Advisory Board and serves on the Board of Directors of IACMI. His center will occupy the Indiana Manufacturing Institute in the Purdue Research Park in 2016. He has active programs in the study of the advanced manufacturing science for composite materials. Appointments Executive Director of the Composites Manufacturing Simulation Center of Purdue University, 2015 - present. Director of the Design and Simulation Technology Area of the Institute for Advanced Composites Manufacturing, 2015 - present. Director of the Composites Design and Manufacturing HUB, 2012 - present John Bray Distinguished Professor of Engineering in the Schools of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Chemical Engineering and Materials Engineering at Purdue University, 2004 - present. Goodyear Professor of Polymer Engineering, University of Akron, 2001 - 04 Distinguished Visiting Professor, College of William and Mary, 1999 - 2001. President of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1993 - 95. Provost of the University of Delaware, 1991 - 1993. Dean of the College of Engineering, University of Delaware, 1985 - 91. Robert L. Spencer Professor of Engineering, University of Delaware, 1986 - 93. Director of the Center for Composite Materials, University of Delaware, 1977 - 85. Education Princeton University, MSE Structural Mechanics, 1969 University of Texas at Arlington, PhD Mechanical Engineering, 1972 Awards and Honors National Academy of Engineering (1987) Royal Society of Engineering Sciences of Sweden (1995) Gustus L. Larson Award of Pi Tau Sigma (1986) Chaire Francqui, Distinguished Faculty Scholar Award in Belgium (1985) Fellow rank in ASC, ASME and SAMPE Graduate Students Jose Ocegueda Barraza Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff Faculty Emeriti Courtesy Appointments Adjunct Faculty Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information Faculty Books Published Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2020 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact Office of Marketing and Media for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-mse@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
