Meng Deng - Materials Engineering Meng Deng - Materials Engineering Skip to main content Main Menu Main Menu Search Purdue Engineering MSE For You For You Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Research and Innovation Faculty and Staff Partnerships Alumni About Us About Us History of MSE What is Materials Engineering? Mission Statement Got Materials? The Boilermaker Materials Trivia Quiz Student Societies News Event & Departmental Pictures Upcoming Seminars Contact Us Our People Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff MSE Faculty Emeriti MSE Courtesy Appointments MSE Adjunct Faculty Our Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information: Hail to Old Purdue! Faculty Books Published Academics Academics Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Students Graduate Program Graduate Students Course Catalog Upcoming Seminars Research Research Research Areas Labs & Facilities Undergraduate Research Laboratory Safety Information Lab Reservations Giving Giving Materials Engineering Endowments Make a Gift Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Medium Podcast Materials Engineering Purdue Engineering MSE Our People Meng Deng Assistant Professor of Agricultural and Biological Engineering/Courtesy Appointment in Materials Engineering Contact Information E-mail: deng65@purdue.edu Deng Lab Web Site School of Materials Engineering Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering 701 West Stadium Avenue West Lafayette, IN 47907-2045 Biography Dr. Meng Deng is an Assistant Professor in Agricultural and Biological Engineering at Purdue University. His research interests include biomaterials, drug delivery, nanotechnology, and regenerative engineering. He received a B.E. in Chemical Engineering in 2004 from Tsinghua University, China and a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering under the mentorship of Dr. Cato T. Laurencin from the University of Virginia in 2010. His doctoral work was focused on the design and development of new polymeric biomaterials and nanostructured matrices for bone regeneration, which resulted in a number of awards including Society for Biomaterials STAR award and an outstanding thesis award. His postdoctoral research with Dr. Laurencin at the University of Connecticut Health Center was focused on development of inductive material strategies for modulation of cell function and regeneration of musculoskeletal tissues. He also worked in the laboratory of Professor Robert Langer at MIT as a visiting scientist on bottom-up design of biomaterials and high throughput screening techniques. He was the recipient of Young Scientist Award from the 2012 World Biomaterials Congress. Dr. Dengs research is based on the convergence of materials science, micro/nano-scale engineering, and cell biology/medicine. Of particular interest is to develop an integrated research program for both the fundamental understanding of cellular processes in tissue development and engineering effective biomaterial systems for treatment of various diseases such as tissue/organ loss. His research program spans from basic science to translational technology. Specifically, his laboratory focuses on the three thrust areas: (1) cell engineering understanding of cellular processes and research effective methods to modulate cell function (e.g., via delivery of inducerons); (2) advanced biomaterials rational design of new polymers and composites by exploiting synthetic chemistry and study of cell-material interactions, and (3) regenerative engineering development of effective bioengineered systems with cell-instructive cues for regeneration of complex tissues and tissue interfaces. There are natural synergies among all the three research areas. Postdoctoral fellows, graduate and undergraduate students are encouraged to contact Dr. Deng about research opportunities in the lab. His website is regenerativematter.com. Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff Faculty Emeriti Courtesy Appointments Adjunct Faculty Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information Faculty Books Published Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2020 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact Office of Marketing and Media for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-mse@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
