Anter El-Azab - Materials Engineering Anter El-Azab - Materials Engineering Skip to main content Main Menu Main Menu Search Purdue Engineering MSE For You For You Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Research and Innovation Faculty and Staff Partnerships Alumni About Us About Us History of MSE What is Materials Engineering? Mission Statement Got Materials? The Boilermaker Materials Trivia Quiz Student Societies News Event & Departmental Pictures Upcoming Seminars Contact Us Our People Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff MSE Faculty Emeriti MSE Courtesy Appointments MSE Adjunct Faculty Our Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information: Hail to Old Purdue! Faculty Books Published Academics Academics Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Students Graduate Program Graduate Students Course Catalog Upcoming Seminars Research Research Research Areas Labs & Facilities Undergraduate Research Laboratory Safety Information Lab Reservations Giving Giving Materials Engineering Endowments Make a Gift Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Medium Podcast Materials Engineering Purdue Engineering MSE Our People Anter El-Azab Professor of Materials Engineering, Professor of Nuclear Engineering (by Courtesy), Director, Materials Theory Group, Editor-in-Chief, Materials Theory (Springer-Nature) Contact Information Office: ARMS 2215 Phone: +1 765 49-66864 FAX: +1 765 49-41204 E-mail: aelazab@purdue.edu Curriculum Vitae School of Materials Engineering and School of Nuclear Engineering Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering 701 West Stadium Avenue West Lafayette, IN 47907-2045 WebEx Link Ph.D. positions available One Ph.D. opening is available in The Materials Theory Group for the fall of 2019 or spring 2020. The group performs advanced theoretical and computational research in the areas of mesoscale plasticity and dislocation dynamics, hydrogen effects in metals, radiation effects in materials, microstructure evolution, phase field method development, phonon and electron thermal transport in crystalline solids, and computational methods for materials science and mechanics. The ideal applicant should have MS in mechanical engineering, aerospace engineering, solid state chemistry, or materials science and engineering, with some experience (graduate course and/or research) in microstructure science, elasticity, defects in crystalline solids, numerical methods, computational techniques such as finite element method, and an advanced programming language, e.g., Fortran or C++ or both. For inquiry please send an email to Professor El-Azab. (aelazab@purdue.edu).). Post-doctoral positions available: Physics of Thermal Transport in Crystalline Solids The Materials Theory Group at the School of Materials Engineering of Purdue University has a post-doctoral opening in the area of physics of thermal transport in crystalline solids. The postdoc will use Boltzmann Transport Equation (BTE) approach to investigate the phonon and electron thermal transport in crystalline solids with lattice defects. A solid state physics background is highly desired for this position but applicants with a strong, closely related theory background from materials science or other engineering disciplines will be considered. The ideal candidate is one who is strongly interested in the fundamental theoretical concepts related to thermal transport and related computational modeling, and must have excellent programming skills in Fortran and/or C++. For inquiry please send an email to Professor Anter El-Azab (aelazab@purdue.edu). The position will remain open until filled. Interested candidates can send a curriculum vita with list of publications, a one-page or less statement of research interests and the names of at least two references, with their email addresses and telephone numbers to the provided email. The Materials Theory Group performs theoretical and computational research in the areas of mesoscale plasticity and dislocation dynamics, radiation effects in materials, microstructure evolution, phase field method development, phonon and electron thermal transport in crystalline solids, and computational methods for materials science and mechanics. The group has over ten graduate students and postdocs, with a wide range of collaborations. Keywords: Dislocation dynamics, Mesoscale plasticity, Microstructure, Phase field methods, Radiation effects in materials, Defect disorder in oxides, Phonon and electron thermal transport, Computational methods in Materials Science. Education Ph.D. Nuclear Engineering, UCLA, 1994 Employment History Dr. El-Azab obtained his PhD in Nuclear Engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1994, and his M.S. and B.S. in Nuclear Engineering, both from the University of Alexandria, Egypt in 1989 and 1986, respectively. After a brief research and teaching appointment at UCLA, Dr. El-Azab joined Pacific Northwest National Laboratory for six years as a research scientist in modeling and simulation in materials and nanoscale systems. He then joined Florida State University as an associate professor and then full professor of Computational Science, Materials Science, and Mechanical Engineering before coming to Purdue in 2012. He is currently a professor of Materials Science and Engineering and a professor of Nuclear Engineering (by Courtesy) and at Purdue University. Classes MSE 697: Materials in Extreme Environments (Spring 2019) MSE 250: Physical Properties in Engineering Systems (Fall 2018) MSE 597: Dislocation Dynamics (Spring 2018) MSE 250: Physical Properties in Engineering Systems (Fall 2017) MSE 367: Materials Processing Laboratory (Spring 2017) MSE 697: Materials in Extreme Environments (Fall 2016) MSE 597: Dislocation Dynamics (Spring 2016) NUCL 320: Introduction to Materials for Nuclear Applications (Fall 2015) Graduate Students Joseph Anderson Rayaprolu Goutham Sreekar Annadanam Fabia Farlin Athena Sanjoy Kumar Mazumder Yash Pachaury Maniesha Kaur Salaken Singh Amrita Sen Kyle Starkey Vignesh Vivekanandan Postdoctoral Scholars Peng Lin, post-doctoral associate Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff Faculty Emeriti Courtesy Appointments Adjunct Faculty Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information Faculty Books Published Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2020 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact Office of Marketing and Media for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-mse@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
