Alumni Information - Materials Engineering Alumni Information - Materials Engineering Skip to main content Main Menu Main Menu Search Purdue Engineering MSE For You For You Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Research and Innovation Faculty and Staff Partnerships Alumni About Us About Us History of MSE What is Materials Engineering? Mission Statement Got Materials? The Boilermaker Materials Trivia Quiz Student Societies News Event & Departmental Pictures Upcoming Seminars Contact Us Our People Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff MSE Faculty Emeriti MSE Courtesy Appointments MSE Adjunct Faculty Our Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information: Hail to Old Purdue! Faculty Books Published Academics Academics Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Students Graduate Program Graduate Students Course Catalog Upcoming Seminars Research Research Research Areas Labs & Facilities Undergraduate Research Laboratory Safety Information Lab Reservations Giving Giving Materials Engineering Endowments Make a Gift Instagram Facebook LinkedIn Medium Podcast Materials Engineering Purdue Engineering MSE Our People Alumni Alumni Information: Hail to Old Purdue! The truest measure of a school is the success of its alumni. Purdue has about 1,500 Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Engineering alumni; and their achievements and continued dedication to the School are a great source of pride. Whether in industry, academia or government, in engineering or a host of other fields of endeavor, recent and not-so-recent grads all take pride in "their" School and the skills that they learned from it. Many of the alums are frequent visitors to the School, attending football or basketball games, presenting seminars to our students or recruiting them for their present employers. Alumni with University Careers We are very proud of our MSE alumni who are currently serving in academic positions. To see a listing of the alumni go to Alumni with University Careers and read who is where. MSE Alumni and the National Academy of Engineering The School of Materials Engineering is proud of our alumni who are members of the National Academy of Engineering. To see who belongs, go to the NAE webpage. Find Old Friends The Purdue University Development Office, in conjunction with the Purdue Alumni Association, is pleased to announce the launch of the Purdue-alumni Web Community online directory! Alumni and friends of the University are now able to login to the Web Community and search for long-lost classmates, using a variety of criteria. While any alumnus, friend, or former student can access the Purdue-alumni Web Community, the online directory will only be available to members of the following groups: Purdue Alumni Association, John Purdue Club, President's Council, Chancellor's Council, Varsity P Club and Purdue University Retirees Association. To get started, go to http://purdue.imodules.com/and click "Register Now." You'll be prompted to enter your first and last name, date of birth and a valid email address. Once logged in, you can choose the information that will be displayed about you in the online directory or opt out of the directory entirely. Information displayed about you in the online directory is controlled through "My Options." Just check the information you'd like to display, or uncheck what you'd like to hide. If you've never visited the Web Community, be sure to check out the other great options available! You can update your address online, sign up for alumni email forwarding, get connected to more than 270,000 job openings, view your giving history and make a gift online! Purdue has partnered with JPMorganChase, N.A. to offer giving site that will allow you to make gifts using Visa, MasterCard, Discover and American Express, or choose to have funds directly withdrawn from your checking account via ACH. You can also choose to register with JPMorganChase, N.A., which enables you to store payment information and make recurring gifts. If you haven't been back for a while, why not drop in? Many things about the school may have changed, but the welcome that you will receive has not. In fact, we have a new building under construction that is slated to be ready for us by the year 2006, which isn't long. Read more about our new building at Purdue News. The alums are a great resource for the current students because of the advice, contacts (and, yes, financial support) that they provide so richly. Their successes and achievements are also very important in opening the eyes of our current students to their own career options. You can stay in touch by attending our receptions at the TMS or ACerS meetings, and we always welcome a letter or a call, updating us on your news. If you are thinking of a visit to campus, consider the Purdue Sports Schedules for days to attend - or avoid it if you don't want to see the worst of West Lafayette traffic! FAQ's What time is it in West Lafayette? What is the weather like in Lafayette this week? Alumni Resources Outstanding Materials Engineers Honorary Doctorates Other Recognitions Take our Alumni Survey Alumni: Update Your Contact Information Obtaining Transcripts Our People MSE Directory Faculty Staff Business Office Staff Faculty Emeriti Courtesy Appointments Adjunct Faculty Graduate Students Research Staff Post-Doctoral Research Staff Alumni Information Faculty Books Published Discover Students Online Faculty Alumni Partners Explore Campus Map Facts & Figures Schools News & Events Visit Us Connect Employment Engineering Computer Network Intranet Brightspace myPurdue People Engineering Directory Contact Us Social Media Media Contacts Purdue Directory Follow Purdue University, 610 Purdue Mall, West Lafayette, IN, 47907, 765-494-4600 2020 Purdue University | An equal access/equal opportunity university | Integrity Statement | Copyright Complaints | Brand Toolkit | Maintained by the Engineering Computer Network Contact Office of Marketing and Media for accessibility issues with this page | Accessibility Resources | Contact Us | Email webmaster-mse@ecn.purdue.edu to report a problem
