Arup K. Chakraborty - Institute for Medical Engineering & Science YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr News & Events People About Give Toggle navigation Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Laurence Young Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Anna Garzelloni David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Victoria Hoffman Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Hunter Lamere Kim LePage Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos Shannon McGinnes Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Crystal Quintanilla Jillian Rabelo Maura Ridge Zara Smith Joseph Stein Nancy Tran Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Maggie Wesh Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give Institute for Medical Engineering & Science Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses Arup K. Chakraborty Core Faculty Phone: (617) 253-3890 Email: arupc@mit.edu Website: Chakraborty Lab Lab Phone: (617) 258-7040 Lab Fax: (617) 253-7498 room: E25-338 MIT address: 77 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, MA 02139 Administrative Assistant: Michelle Antunes assistant phone: (617) 258-0866 assistant email: mantunes@mit.edu Arup K. Chakraborty Core Faculty Title(s) Robert T. Haslam (1911) Professor in Chemical Engineering,Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor of Professor of Physics and Chemistry,Massachusetts Institute of Technology Founding Director of (IMES) Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Founding Steering Committee Member of Ragon Institute of MIT, MGH, and Harvard University Bio Arup K. Chakrabortys career has been focused on work that brings together approaches from different disciplines to understand diverse phenomena and harness that knowledge toward practical ends. He is currently the Robert T. Haslam Professor of Chemical Engineering, and Professor of Physics and Chemistry at MIT. He served as the founding Director of MITs Institute for Medical Engineering and Science (IMES) from February 2012 to January 2018. He is also a founding steering committee member of the Ragon Institute of MIT, MGH, and Harvard, and an Associate Member of the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. After obtaining his PhD in chemical engineering and postdoctoral studies, he joined the faculty at the University of California at Berkeley in December 1988. He rose through the ranks, and ultimately served as the Warren and Katherine Schlinger Distinguished Professor and Chair of Chemical Engineering, Professor of Chemistry, and Professor of Biophysics at Berkeley. He was also Head of Theoretical and Computational Biology at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. In September 2005, Chakraborty moved to MIT. After an early career in guiding the engineering of polymers and catalysts using quantum mechanical calculations, since 2000, Chakrabortys work has largely focused on bringing together immunology and the physical and engineering sciences; more specifically, the intersection of statistical mechanics and immunology. His interests span T cell signaling, T cell development and repertoire, and a mechanistic understanding of HIV evolution, antibody evolution, and vaccine design. Since 2016, he has also been deeply interested in the role of phase separation in gene regulation. Chakrabortys work at the intersection of disciplines has been recognized by numerous honors, including the NIH Directors Pioneer Award, the E.O. Lawrence Medal for Life Sciences from the US DOE, Guggenheim Fellowship, the Allan P. Colburn and Professional Progress awards from the AIChE, a Dreyfus Teacher-Scholar award, and a National Young investigator award. Chakraborty was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering for completely different bodies of work. He is also a member of the National Academy of Medicine, making him one of 23 individuals who are members of all three branches of the US National Academies, and the only person trained as a physical scientist/engineer whose work is purely rooted in theory/computation on this list. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and serves on the US Defense Science Board. Chakraborty has received four teaching awards at Berkeley and MIT. Research Interests For two decades, Chakrabortys lab has focused on understanding the mechanistic underpinnings of the adaptive immune response to pathogens, and then to harness this knowledge to help design better vaccines and therapies. Current interests in immunology can be divided into three broad categories: understanding the network of biochemical interactions that enable T cells to translate engagement of membrane receptors to cognate ligands in to functional responses, how T cell development results in T cells that are specific for unknown and emerging pathogens, and the human immune response to HIV and influenza. The goal of the last effort is to guide the rational design of vaccines and therapies against highly mutable infectious disease-causing agents. Another recent focus is the role of phase separation in eukaryotic gene regulation. In particular, how these droplets form at specific genomic loci, and how their functions are regulated by non-equilibrium processes in cells. Chakrabortys work represents a crossroad of the physical and life sciences. A hallmark of Chakrabortys research is the close synergy and collaboration between his labs theoretical and computational studies (rooted in statistical physics) and investigations led by experimental and clinical biologists. selected publications A full list of Professor Chakrabortys publications can be found on his website. Research Initiatives MEDRC MIT linQ MIT MGH Partnership Microbiome Center Clinical Research Center Academics HST HST Courses News & Events News EVENTS Calendar People Faculty Elfar Adalsteinsson Daniel Anderson Regina Barzilay Sangeeta Bhatia Brett Bouma Lydia Bourouiba Emery Brown Arup K. Chakraborty Kwanghun Chung Richard J. Cohen James J. Collins Elazer Edelman Joseph J. Frassica John Gabrieli Lee Gehrke Polina Golland Martha Gray Julie Greenberg Thomas Heldt Robert S. Langer Tami Lieberman Roger Mark Leonid Mirny Dava Newman Ellen Roche Alex K. Shalek Phillip Sharp Charles Sodini David Sontag Collin Stultz Peter Szolovits Bruce Walker Laurence Young Research Staff Brian Anthony Natalie Artzi Mercedes Balcells Leo Anthony Celi Jane-Jane Chen Staff Bonnie Crosby Jeff Gahan Karrol Altarejos Traci Anderson Michelle Antunes Mindy Blodgett Lian-Ee Chng Allison Christiansen Bonnie Crosby Patricia Cunningham Rhonda Dragon Erin Edwards Tara Fawaz Pam Fradkin Jeff Gahan Anna Garzelloni David Hansen Cindy Higgins Kate Hodgins Victoria Hoffman Sue Kangiser Fern Keniston Hunter Lamere Kim LePage Megan Lewis Joanna MacIver Megumi Masuda-Loos Shannon McGinnes Alexandra Nano Ken Pierce Tom Quinn Crystal Quintanilla Jillian Rabelo Maura Ridge Zara Smith Joseph Stein Nancy Tran Olga Vieira Laurie Ward Maggie Wesh Monica Wolf Megan Wong Ellie Zucker Faculty Awards & Honors Directory About Vision IMES Diversity and Inclusion Statement Career Opportunities Conference Rooms Room Descriptions Conference Room Policy Room Calendars Contact Administrative Resources Give YouTubeTwitterFacebookFlickr IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login copyright IMES 2020 design by OPUS development by DESYDE COPYRIGHT IMES 2020 IMES@MIT.EDU Give Contact Accessibility Login DESIGN BY OPUS DEVELOPMENT BY DESYDE PHP Code Snippets Powered By : XYZScripts.com
