Faculty job openings - Electrical Engineering Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Electrical EngineeringCollege of Engineering MENUMENUResearchUndergraduateGraduateFacultyNewsEventsAbout About EEWelcome from the ChairFaculty job openingsAdministration and Staff Search for: Home Search Menu Search for: Home About Electrical Engineering Faculty job openings Faculty job openings Posted October 30, 2020 The Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Notre Dame invites applications for two tenure-track faculty positions. The Department seeks to attract excellent faculty members with strong academic and research track records. The Department is especially interested in candidates who will contribute to the diversity and excellence of the Universitys academic community through their research, teaching, and service. Signal processing, control, communications and networking (open rank) The Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Notre Dame invites applications at all levels for a tenured or tenure-track faculty position the areas of signal processing, control, communications and networking. Applications of interest are, but not limited to, system-level methods and technologies that address grand challenges such as reliable and affordable power delivery, environmental monitoring, smart manufacturing, hardware for broad autonomy, healthcare, wireless communication and security. Applicants must submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a teaching statement, and 2-3 page research statement. The application must include the names, titles and email addresses of three or more individuals who will provide letters of recommendation. All materials can be submitted at apply.interfolio.com/80295. For best consideration, applicants are encouraged to apply by February 1, 2021. Semiconductor materials, devices and micro/nanoelectronic systems (open rank) The Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Notre Dame invites applications at all levels for a tenured or tenure-track faculty position in the areas of semiconductor materials, devices and micro/nanoelectronic systems. Applications of interest are, but not limited to, novel integrated circuit technologies, devices and materials that address grand challenges in autonomous machines, smart sensors, energy-efficient and high-performance computing, wireless communication, and hardware security. Applicants must submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a teaching statement, and 2-3 page research statement. The application must include the names, titles and email addresses of three or more individuals who will provide letters of recommendation. All materials can be submitted at apply.interfolio.com/80298. For best consideration, applicants are encouraged to apply by February 1, 2021. Notre Dame is located in South Bend, Indiana, a vibrant and affordable community not far from Lake Michigan and a short train ride to Chicago. The University is an Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer; we strongly encourage applications from women, minorities, veterans, individuals with a disability and those candidates attracted to a university with a Catholic identity. Notre Dame is responsive to the needs of dual career couples and is interested in candidates who will bring to their research the perspective that comes from a nontraditional educational background or understanding of the experiences of those underrepresented in higher education. Departments Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering and Earth Sciences Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering College of Engineering Electrical Engineering 275 Fitzpatrick Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Phone (574) 631-5480 ee@nd.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 2020 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn
