People | University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science deadline event featured list timeline open-book pencil-paper dummy arrow checkbox chevron close fetus fingerprint hamburger heartbeat magnifying-glass minus plane plus ribbon search shape skinny-arrow trophy uva-engineering-logo uva-seas-logo venus-symbol molecule award calendar contact email home left-arrow lightbulb news publications research youtube linkedin instagram twitter facebook Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science | Homepage Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Search Submit PeopleFacultyStaffResearchApplyAcademicsNewsNews StoriesNews BriefsAbout Jump to Footer HomeDepartmentsMechanical and Aerospace EngineeringPeople People Find Faculty View All Faculty Find Faculty by Research Strength Toggle display of child links Engineering For Health Engineering for the Cyber Future Engineering Technologies for a Sustainable and Connected World Find Faculty by Appointment Toggle display of child links Primary Appointment Joint Appointment Courtesy Appointment View: a B C D E F G H i j K L M N O P Q R S T u v W X y z Balachandran, Prasanna Balachandran, Prasanna Assistant Professor My interests are in materials informatics, density functional theory, machine learning, bayesian inference, and optimal design methods applied to accelerate the search and discovery of novel 2D materials, metallic alloys, ferroic and electronic materials. Read More pvb5e@virginia.edu Google Scholar Materials Informatics Group Bart-Smith, Hilary Bart-Smith, Hilary Professor Professor Bart-Smith joined the University of Virginia faculty in the fall of 2002. She obtained her undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland and her PhD degree in Engineering Sciences from Harvard University. Dr. Bart-Smith came to UVA... Read More hilary@virginia.edu Google Scholar Bart-Smith Labs Blemker, Silvia Salinas Blemker, Silvia Salinas Professor of Biomedical Engineering Dr. Blemker is from Lawrence, Kansas. She did her undergraduate and Masters work in Biomedical Engineering at Northwestern University, and her PhD in Mechanical Engineering at Stanford University. She is broadly interested in muscle mechanics & physiology, multi-scale modeling, mentoring... Read More ssblemker@virginia.edu Google Scholar Multiscale Muscle Mechanophysiology (M3) Lab Springbok, Inc Chang, Cindy Chang, Cindy Associate Professor Professor Chang joined UVA as an Associate Professor in December 2018. Prior to her position at UVA, Dr. Chang was an associate professor of Mechanical Engineering at Stony Brook University. Dr. Qing (Cindy) Changs research has focused on improving sustainability and efficiency of smart... Read More qc9nq@virginia.edu Google Scholar Chelliah, Harsha K. Chelliah, Harsha K. Professor Professor Chelliah joined the University of Virginia in the Fall of 1992. He received his B.Sc. degree (First-Class Honors) in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Moratuwa in Sri Lanka in January 1981, MS degree in Mechanical... Read More harsha@virginia.edu Google Scholar Reacting Flow Lab Crandall, Jeff R. Crandall, Jeff R. Professor Emeritus Professor Crandall served as the Director of the Universitys Center for Applied Biomechanics from 1994 to 2019. His research focuses on understanding human response and injury with applications in automobile safety, sports, and military protection. He has extensive experience with experimental... Read More jeffc@virginia.edu Google Scholar Center for Applied Biomechanics Dedic, Chloe Dedic, Chloe Assistant Professor Dedic received her B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Iowa State University in 2012 and 2017, respectively. After graduation she worked as a visiting scientist with the National Institute of Aerospace at NASA Langley Research Center and joined the University of Virginia in the spring of 2018. Dedic is... Read More CD5QM@VIRGINIA.EDU Google Scholar Reacting Flow Lab Dong, Haibo Dong, Haibo Associate Professor, Director of Undergraduate Aerospace Engineering Professor Dong joined UVA as an Associate Professor in August 2012. Prior to his position at UVA, Dr. Dong was an associate professor of Mechanical Engineering at the Wright State University. He obtained his Ph.D. degree in Aerospace Engineering from UCLA in 2003. After completing his doctorate... Read More hd6q@virginia.edu Google Scholar Flow Simulation Research Group (FSRG) Link Lab Esfarjani, Keivan Esfarjani, Keivan Associate Professor My undergraduate studies up to the Masters level were done in France, at the Ecole Centrale de Paris where I studied all fields of engineering and University of Paris VII where I specialized in solid-state physics. My Phd was in condensed matter theory at the University of Delaware. My thesis... Read More k1@virginia.edu Google Scholar Website Fittro, Roger Fittro, Roger Assistant Professor, Associate Director, ROMAC Laboratory Read More rlf9w@virginia.edu Google Scholar Rotating Machinery and Controls (ROMAC) Laboratory Previous 1 2 3 4 5 Next Find Faculty View All Faculty Find Faculty by Research Strength Toggle display of child links Engineering For Health Engineering for the Cyber Future Engineering Technologies for a Sustainable and Connected World Find Faculty by Appointment Toggle display of child links Primary Appointment Joint Appointment Courtesy Appointment Apply Now Visit Grounds Give to Engineering Jump to Header University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science | Homepage Find FacultyNewsEventsJobs@UVADirectoryvirginia.edu Thornton Hall, P.O. Box 400259, Charlottesville, VA 22904-4259 Phone: 434-924-3072 MediaPrivacy PolicyNon-discrimination PolicyAccessibility Like Us on FacebookFollow Us on TwitterFollow Us on InstagramFollow Us on LinkedInSubscribe to our channel on YouTube 2020 University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science
