David A. B. Miller | Applied Physics Skip to content Skip to navigation Applied Physics Search form Search About Overview Our History Contacts & Directions Jobs Giving Student & Postdoc Awards People Faculty Staff Current Students Alumni Research Overview Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Biophysics Condensed Matter Physics Facilities & Independent Laboratories Academic Programs Overview PhD program Master's program Coterminal Masters in Applied & Engineering Physics Undergraduate Opportunities Honors Cooperative Admissions Overview Application FAQs Financial Support Resources Overview Equity & Inclusion Graduate Students Postdocs Health & Safety Machine Shop & Stockrooms Photo & Video Archive Events Upcoming Events Calendar Archive News David A. B. Miller Faculty W.M. Keck Foundation Professor of Electrical Engineering Professor of Applied Physics by Courtesy Director, Solid State and Photonics Laboratory Sites Stanford ProfileResearch Group WebsitePersonal WebsiteDescription of Interests: Nanoscience and Quantum Engineering David Miller works primarily in novel devices and device physics in optics and optoelectronics for information processing. Quantum confinement in semiconductor nanostructures allows us to engineer new kinds of efficient and compact optoelectronic devices to tackle such problems. Nanophotonic structures can enable new kinds of compact optical devices. The combination especially of nanometallic antennas and waveguides to concentrate light to deeply sub-wavelength quantum-confined structures promises new levels of performance in combined optical and electronic information processing, and his research group explores novel device concepts and applications. He also investigates the basic physical limits of optics and optical components and he teaches the applied quantum mechanics course sequence for engineering and science students. History Member for 6 months 5 days Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.
