Aaron D Lanterman | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Aaron D Lanterman Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: Digital Signal Processing, Computer Systems and Software Email address:email Work phone:404/385-2548 Fax:404.894.8363 Office:VL W431 http://users.ece.gatech.edu/~lanterma/ Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Lanterman grew up in St. Louis, MO and attended Washington University,where he finished a triple major consisting of a B.A. in music, B.S. in computer science, and a B.S. in electrical engineering in 1993. He stayed on for graduate school, receiving an M.S. (1995) and D.Sc. (1998) in electrical engineering. His graduate work focused on target recognition for infrared imagery as part of the U.S. Army Center for Imaging Science. After graduation, he joined the Coordinated Science Laboratory at the Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he managed a large project on covert radar systems which exploit "illuminators of opportunity" such as commercial television and FM radio signals. He joined the Georgia Tech faculty in the fall of 2001. He has worn many hats in the music industry, including those of concert promoter, recording engineer, and soundman. While in St. Louis, he worked as a writer, photographer, typesetter, and eventually managing editor for a local music publication. He plays keyboard and guitar. Research interests: Target recognition Image reconstruction Radar systems Music synthesis Distinctions: Richard M. Bass/Eta Kappa Nu Oustanding Teacher Award (2006) NIC Certificate of Excellence "for outstanding contributions to the National Intelligence Council and exceptional service to the Intelligence Community" Session chair, SPIE Aerosense conference Member IEEE and SPIE K. Choi, A.D. Lanterman, and R. Raich, Convergence of the Schulz-Snyder Phase Retrieval Algorithm to Local Minima, Journal of the Optical Society of America A, Vol. 23, No. 8, Aug. 2006, pp. 1835-1845. M. Tobias and A.D. Lanterman, Probability Hypothesis Density-Based Multitarget Tracking with Bistatic Range and Doppler Observations, IEE Proc. Radar, Sonar, and Navigation, Vol. 152, No. 3, June 2005, pp. 195-205. M. Brandfass, A.D. Lanterman, and K.F. Warnick, "A Comparison of the Colton-Kirsch Inverse Scattering Methods with Linearized Tomographic Inverse Scattering", Inverse Problems, Vol. 17, No. 6, Dec. 2001, pp. 1797-1816. A.D. Lanterman, "Schwarz, Wallace, and Rissanen: Intertwining Themes in Theories of Model Order Estimation, International Statistical Review," Vol. 69, No. 2, August 2001, pp. 185-212. A. Srivastava, A.D. Lanterman, U. Grenander, M. Loizeaux, and M.I. Miller, "Monte Carlo Techniques for Automated Target Recognition," Chapter 26 in Sequential Monte Carlo Methods in Practice, Eds: A. Doucet, N. de Frietas, and N. Gordon, Springer, 2001, pp. 533-552. A.D. Lanterman, "Bayesian Segmentation via Asymptotic Partition Functions," IEEE Trans. on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, Vol. 22, No. 4, April 2000, pp. 337-347. A.D. Lanterman, J.A. O'Sullivan, M.I. Miller, "Kullback-Leibler Distances for Quantifying Clutter and Models," Optical Engineering, Vol. 38, No. 2, Dec. 1999, pp. 2134-2146. M. Faisal, A.D. Lanterman, D.L. Snyder and R. L. White, "Implementation of a Modified Richardson-Lucy Method for Image Restoration on a Massively Parallel Computer to Compensate for Space-Variant Point-Spread of a Charge-Coupled-Device Camera," Journal of the Optical Society of America A, Vol. 12, No. 12, December 1995, pp. 2593-2603. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
