Gee-Kung Chang | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Gee-Kung Chang Job title:Professor; Byers Eminent Scholar Chair in Optical Networking; Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar Technical Interest Groups: Optics and Photonics, Digital Signal Processing, Telecommunications Email address:email Work phone:404/385-2712 Fax:404.894.8363 Office:Cent 5120 Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Professor Chang received his bachelor's degree in physics from National Tsinghua University in Taiwan and his doctoral degree from the University of California, Riverside. Dr. Chang devoted a total of 23 years of service to R&D at Bell Systems-Bell Labs, Bellcore, and Telcordia Technologies-where he served in various management positions including Director of Optical System Integration and Network Interoperability Group, and finally, Director and Chief Scientist of Optical Internet Research. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, he served as Vice President and Chief Technology Strategist of OpNext, Inc., where he was in charge of technology planning and product strategy for high-speed optical networking components and systems. Professor Chang has been granted 55 patents and co-authored more than 300 peer-reviewed journal and conference papers in the areas of optoelectronic devices, high speed integrated circuits, telecommunication switching components and systems, WDM optical networking systems and networks, optical network security, optical label switching and optical interconnect technologies, TDM- and WDM-PONs, and radio-over-fiber and wireless-over-fiber systems and networks. He has been an active contributor to many IEEE Photonics Society and Optical Society of America (OSA) sponsored journals, conferences, and committees. He has served five times as the lead guest editor for special issues of the Journal of Lightwave Technology (JLT) and Journal of Optical Communications and Networking (JOCN), sponsored by IEEE and/or OSA. The special issues include: Optical Networks published in 2000 by JLT, Metro and Access Networks published in 2004 by JLT, Convergence of Optical Wireless Access Network in 2007 by JLT, Radio-over-Optical Fiber Networks in 2008 by JOCN, and the most recent one on Very High Throughput Wireless over Fiber Technologies and Applications in 2010 by JLT. He is a pioneer and champion of broadband wireless over fiber technologies for convergence of wireless and optical access networks that provides high bandwidth, high capacity, and mobile access to future Internet users. Research interests: Optoelectronics and photonics Optical networks and systems Optical label and packet switching technologies Passive access networks: TDM- and WDM-PONs Radio-over-fiber and wireless-over-fiber access networks Distinctions: Eminent Scholar, Georgia Research Alliance Fellow of IEEE Fellow of OSA Fellow of Telcordia Technologies Fellow of Photonics Society of Chinese-American Bellcore President Award, 1994 R&D 100 Award, 1996 Best Scientific Paper Award, SAIC, 2001 Gee-Kung Chang and Minoru Maeda, "Key optical technologies for IP over WDM next Generation Internet Networks" Proceedings of IT Com, Boston, 2002. Y.M. Lin, W. I. Way, G. K. Chang, "A novel optical label swapping technique using erasable optical single-sideband sub-carrier label", IEEE Photonic Technology Letters, pp1088-1090, 2000. W. T. Anderson, J. Jackel, G. K. Chang, et al, "The MONET project-a final report" IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology, pp1988-2009, 2000. B. Meagher, G. K. Chang, et al, "Design and implementation of ultra-low latency optical label switching for packet switched WDM networks" IEEE Journal of Lightwave Technology, pp1978-1987, 2000. G. K. Chang, "IP over WDM demonstrations in optical label switching testbed for next generation internet" OSA Proceedings, TOPs Volume 32, Photonics in Switching, Santa Barbara, 1999. G. Ellinas, G. K. Chang, W. Anderson, R. Wagner, "Architecture considerations in merging multi-vendor WDM rings for MONET Washington DC network", Conference Digest, OFC 1999, San Diego. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
