Arijit Raychowdhury | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Arijit Raychowdhury Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: VLSI Systems and Digital Design Email address:email Work phone:404/894-1789 Office:Klaus 2362 http://www.ece.gatech.edu/research/labs/icsrl/ Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Arijit Raychowdhury is currently a Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology where he joined in January, 2013. He received his Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Purdue University (2007) and his B.E. in Electrical and Telecommunication Engineering from Jadavpur University, India (2001). His industry experience includes five years as a Staff Scientist in the Circuits Research Lab, Intel Corporation, and a year as an Analog Circuit Designer with Texas Instruments Inc. His research interests include low power digital and mixed-signal circuit design, design of power converters, sensors and exploring interactions of circuits with device technologies. Dr. Raychowdhury holds more than 25 U.S. and international patents and has published over 80 articles in journals and refereed conferences. He serves on the Technical Program Committees of DAC, ICCAD, VLSI Conference, and ISQED and has been a guest associate-editor for JETC. He has also taught many short courses and invited tutorials at multiple conferences, workshops and universities. He is the winner of the Intel Labs Technical Contribution Award, 2011; Dimitris N. Chorafas Award for outstanding doctoral research, 2007; the Best Thesis Award, College of Engineering, Purdue University, 2007; Best Paper Awards at the International Symposium on Low Power Electronic Design (ISLPED) 2012, 2006; IEEE Nanotechnology Conference, 2003; SRC Technical Excellence Award, 2005; Intel Foundation Fellowship, 2006; NASA INAC Fellowship, 2004; M.P. Birla Smarak Kosh (SOUTH POINT) Award for Higher Studies, 2002; and the Meissner Fellowship 2002. Dr. Raychowdhury is a Senior Member of the IEEE. Research interests: Design of low power digital circuits with emphasis on adaptability and resiliency Design of voltage regulators, adaptive clocking, and power management Device-circuit interactions for logic and storage Alternative compute architectures Distinctions: Senior Member, IEEE, 2013 Intel Labs Technical Contribution Award, 2011 Dimitris N. Chorafas Award for outstanding doctoral research, 2007 Best Thesis Award, College of Engineering, Purdue University, USA, 2007 Best Paper Awards: International Symposium on Low Power Electronic Design (ISLPED) 2012,2006; IEEE Nanotechnology Conference, 2003 SRC Technical Excellence Award, Research Team Member, 2005 Intel Foundation Fellowship 2006, NASA INAC Fellowship 2004, Meissner Fellowship 2002 A. Raychowdhury, D. Somasekhar, J. Tschanz, and V. De, "A fully-digital phase-locked low dropout regulator in 32nm CMOS," Proceedings of the VLSI Circuit Symposium, June 2012. A. Raychowdhury, B. Geuskens, K. Bowman, J. Tschanz, S.-L. Lu, T. Karnik, M. Khellah, V. De, "Tunable Replica Bits for Dynamic Variation Tolerance in 8T SRAM Arrays," Journal of Solid State Circuits (JSSCC), Vol-46, Issue 4, April 2011. A. Raychowdhury, B. Geuskens, J. Kulkarni, J. Tschanz, K. Bowman, T. Karnik, S.-L. Lu, V. De, M. Khellah, "PVT & Aging Adaptive Word-Line Boosting for 8T SRAM Power reduction," Proceedings of the International Solid State Circuit Conference (ISSCC), 2010. A. Raychowdhury, D. Somasekhar, T. Karnik, V. De, "Design Space and Scalability Exploration of 1T-1STT MTJ Memory Arrays in the Presence of Variability and Disturbances," Digest of International Electron Device Meeting (IEDM), Dec. 2009. S. Kumar Gupta, A. Raychowdhury and K. Roy, "Compact models considering incomplete voltage swing in complementary metal oxide semiconductor circuits at ultralow voltages: A circuit perspective on limits of switching energy," Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 105, Issue 9, 2009. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
