Raheem A Beyah | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Raheem A Beyah Job title:Professor; Vice President for Interdisciplinary Research; Motorola Foundation Professor Technical Interest Groups: Computer Systems and Software Email address:email Fax:404.894.0035 Office:Klaus 2308 http://www.ece.gatech.edu/cap/ http://users.ece.gatech.edu/~rbeyah/ Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Raheem Beyah currently holds the Motorola Foundation Professorship in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and serves as the Vice President for Interdisciplinary Research at Georgia Tech. A native of Atlanta, Georgia, Dr. Beyah received his Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from North Carolina A&T State University in 1998. He received his Master's and Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Georgia Tech in 1999 and 2003, respectively. Prior to returning to Georgia Tech as a member of the ECE faculty, Dr. Beyah was a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science at Georgia State University, a research faculty member with the Georgia Tech Communications Systems Center (CSC), and a consultant in Andersen Consulting's (now Accenture) Network Solutions Group. He served as the Interim Steve W. Chaddick School Chair from September 2017-July 2018 and as the ECE associate chair for Strategic Initiatives and Innovation from September 2016-December 2018. Dr. Beyah's work is at the intersection of the networking and security fields. He leads the Georgia Tech Communications Assurance and Performance Group (CAP). The CAP Group develops algorithms that enable a more secure network infrastructure, with computer systems that are more accountable and less vulnerable to attacks. Through experimentation, simulation, and theoretical analysis, CAP provides solutions to current network security problems and to long-range challenges as current networks and threats evolve. Dr. Beyah has served as guest editor and associate editor of several journals in the areas of network security, wireless networks, and network traffic characterization and performance. He received the National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2009 and was selected for DARPA's Computer Science Study Panel in 2010. He is a member of AAAS, ASEE, a lifetime member of NSBE, a senior member of IEEE, and an ACM Distinguished Scientist. Research interests: Cyber-Physical Systems Security Privacy Network Security Network Monitoring and Performance Distinctions: NSF/FACES Career Initiation Grant - 2003 NSF CAREER Award - 2009 DARPA Computer Science Study Panel - 2010 Senior Member, IEEE - 2009 Distinguished Scientist, ACM - 2016 Emerging Scholar, Diverse: Issues in Higher Education - 2017 Xiaojing Liao, Kan Yuan, Xiaofeng Wang, Zhongyu Pei, Hao Yang, Jianjun Chen, Haixin Duan, Kun Du, Eihal Alowaisheq, Sumayah Alrwais, Luyi Xing, and Raheem Beyah. "Seeking Nonsense, Looking for Trouble: Efficient Promotional-Infection Detection through Semantic Inconsistency Search. In the Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security & Privacy (Oakland), May 2016. David Formby, Preethi Srinivasan, Andrew Leonard, Jonathan Rogers, and Raheem Beyah. "Who's in Control of Your Control System? Device Fingerprinting for Cyber-Physical Systems." In the Proceedings of the Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium, February 2016. Sakthi Vignesh Radhakrishnan, A. Selcuk Uluagac, and Raheem Beyah. "GTID: A Technique for Physical Device and Device Type Fingerprinting." In the IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, Vol. 12, No. 5, Sept.-Oct. 2015. Shouling Ji, Weiqing Li, Prateek Mittal, Xin Hu, and Raheem Beyah. "SecGraph: A Uniform and Open-source Evaluation System for Graph Data Anonymization and De-anonymization." In the Proceedings of USENIX Security (Security) Symposium, August 2015. Shouling Ji, Weiqing Li, Mudhakar Srivatsa, and Raheem Beyah. "Structural Data De-anonymization: Quantification, Practice, and Implications." In the Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS), November 2014. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
