Yogendra K Joshi | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Yogendra K Joshi Job title:Professor Email address:email Work phone:404/385-2810 Fax:404.894.8496 Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Yogendra Joshi grew up in the Himalayan foothills and graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur with a B. Tech. in Mechanical Engineering in 1979. He joined the group of Professor Benjamin Gebhart for graduate studies, receiving his M.S. in Mechanical Engineering in 1981 from the State University of New York, Buffalo and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics in 1984 from the University of Pennsylvania. Prior to joining the Georgia Tech faculty in August 2001, he held academic positions at the University of Maryland, College Park from 1993 to 2001, and at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California from 1986 to 1993. He also worked in the semiconductor assembly industry from 1984 to 1985 on process thermal model development. Professor Joshi's research involves thermal and fluid flow issues associated with electronic devices, packages and systems. He is the author or co-author of fifty journal articles and numerous conference papers. He is also involved in developing internet based distance learning programs in thermal management of electronics. Dr. Joshi holds a joint appointment at Georgia Tech between the School of Mechanical Engineering and the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Research interests: Thermal management of electronic, telecommunication and power devices and systems Computational modeling of semiconductor manufacturing and assembly processes and equipment Computational modeling of thermal and electro-thermal phenomena Microfabricated thermal management devices and sensors Distinctions: Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Co-recipient of 1999 Curriculum Innovation Award of ASME Associate Technical Editor, ASME J. Electronic Packaging (1996-2001) Received Faculty Performance Award at the Naval Postgraduate School, 1989 -1992 review cycles. "IC Test Structures for Multilayer Interconnect Stress Determination," S.A. Smee, M. Gaitan, D.B. Novotny, Y. Joshi, and D.L. Blackburn. IEEE Electron Device Letters, Vol. 21, pp. 12-14, 2000. "Combined Effects of Sub-Cooling and Operating Pressure on The Performance of a Two-Chamber Thermosyphon," C. Ramaswamy, Y. Joshi, W. Nakayama, and W. Johnson. IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies, Vol. 23, pp. 61-69, 2000. "Natural Convection Air Cooling of Electronic Components in Partially Open Compact Horizontal Enclosures", E. Yu and Y. Joshi, IEEE Transactions on Components, Parts and Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 23, pp. 14-22, 2000. "Compact Thermosyphons Employing Microfabricated Components," C. Ramaswamy, Y. Joshi, W. Nakayama, and W.B. Johnson. Microscale Thermophysical Engineering, Vol. 3, pp. 273-282, 1999. "Integrated Thermal Analysis of Indirect Air-Cooled Electronic Chassis," L. Tang and Y. Joshi. IEEE Transactions on Components, Packaging and Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 20, pp. 103-110, 1997. "Issues in Validating Package Compact Thermal Models for Natural Convection Cooled Electronic Systems," V.H. Adams, D.L. Blackburn, Y. Joshi, and D.W. Berning. IEEE Transactions on Components, Packaging and Manufacturing Technology, Vol. 20, 420-431, 1997. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
