Biing Hwang Juang | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Biing Hwang Juang Job title:Professor; Motorola Foundation Chair Professor; Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar Technical Interest Groups: Digital Signal Processing Email address:email Work phone:404/894-6618 Fax:404.894.8363 Office:Cent 5173 http://users.ece.gatech.edu/~juang Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Professor Juang received his undergraduate degree from National Taiwan University in 1973, and his masters and doctoral degrees from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1978 and 1981, respectively. He subsequently joined the Acoustics Research Department of Bell Laboratories, where he worked in the area of speech coding and recognition. Professor Juang became Director of Acoustics and Speech Research at Bell Labs in 1996, and Director of Multimedia Technologies Research at Avaya Labs (a spin-off of Bell Labs) in 2001, where he worked in speech and multimedia communication research. He led a team that is accredited with such important inventions as the electret microphone, the network echo canceller, a series of speech CODECs, key algorithms for signal modeling and automatic speech recognition, and the development of a speech server for applications such as AT&T's advanced 800 calls and the Moviefone. Most recent innovations under Professor Juang include a world-first real-time full-duplex hands-free stereo teleconferencing system. Prof. Juang holds nearly 20 patents, and has published extensively. A major publication is the textbook, Fundamentals of Speech Recognition, co-authored with L.R. Rabiner. Research interests: Speech processing, including recognition, synthesis, coding and enhancement Multi-channel and array signal processing Stochastic modeling of signal and data sequence Signal processing for communications Multimedia and multimodal communications Distinctions: Member, National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Fellow, IEEE Fellow, Bell Labs Technical Achievement Award, IEEE Signal Processing Society Third Millennium Medal, IEEE Editor-in-Chief, IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing Distinguished Lecturer, IEEE Signal Processing Society Best Paper Awards, IEEE Signal Processing Society, 1993, 1994 Most Influential Signal Processing Magazine Paper Awards, IEEE Signal Processing Society, 1994 Bell Labs' President Gold Award Academician, Academia Sinica Juang, B-H. and Soong, F.K., "Hands-free telecommunications", Proceedings of International Workshop on Hands-free Speech Communications, p. 5-10, ATR, Kyoto, Japan, April 2001. Shigeru Katagiri, B.H. Juang and C.H. Lee, "Pattern recognition using a family of design algorithms based upon Generalized Probabilistic Descent method", Intelligent Signal Processing, Haykin and Kosko (ed.), IEEE Press, 2001. Juang, B-H., "Hidden Markov Models", The Encyclopedia of Telecommunications, John Proakis (ed.), John Wiley and Sons, 2000. Juang, B-H., "Speech and Speaker Recognition", The McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science & Technology, 2000. Li Q., Juang, B-H., Zhou Q. and Lee, C.H., "Automatic verbal information verification for user authentication", IEEE Trans. Speech and Audio Proc., vol.8, no.5, pp.585-596, September 2000. Juang, B-H. and Furui, S. "Automatic recognition and understanding of spoken language - a first step towards natural human-machine communication", Proceedings of the IEEE, August 2000. Juang, B-H. Sondhi, M. and Rabiner, L.R.,"Digital speech processing,", The Encyclopedia of Physical Science and Technology, Robert Meyers (ed.), Academic Press, 2000. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
