Felix Herrmann | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Felix Herrmann Job title:Professor; Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar in Energy Email address:email Work phone:+1 404 3857069 Office:Coda S1375B Seismic Laboratory for Imaging and Modelling Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Felix J. Herrmann is Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar in Energy and a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology with appointments in the Schools of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, Computational Science and Engineering, and Electrical and Computer Engineering. Dr. Herrmann will be the 2019 Distinguished Lecturer of the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG). Dr. Herrmann holds a M.Sc. and Ph.D. in Engineering Physics from the Delft University of Technology. He completed his postdoctoral studies at Stanford University and MIT before becoming a professor at the University of British Columbia's Department of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences. He joined the faculty of the Georgia Institute of Technology in October 2017. During his career, Dr. Herrmann has worked on the development of the next-generation of industrial acquisition and computational imaging technologies designed to improve the image quality in complex geological areas at vastly reduced costs and environmental impact. Aside from driving innovations, by leveraging recent developments in the mathematical and computational sciences, Dr. Herrmann has extensive experience working with industry. At the University of British Columbia, he was the founder and director of the Seismic Laboratory for Imaging and Modelling (SLIM), which hosted the industry Consortium SINBAD. Under his guidance, SLIM became a world leader in the successful integration of transformative scientific developments, such as compressive sensing, randomized linear algebra, and machine learning, into innovative approaches that tackle the most challenging imaging problems. With his move to the Georgia Institute of Technology, Dr. Herrmann plans to broaden his research program to include other imaging modalities. Dr. Herrmann was a long program participant at UCLA's Institute for Pure and Applied Mathematics in the Fall of 2004 and has been involved in public-private partnerships around the world. He serves on the editorial board of Geophysical Prospecting and on the SEG Research Committee. Research interests: Computational seismic imaging and acquisition Inverse problems Compressive sensing Machine learning Distinctions: Distinguished Lecturer, Society of Exploration Geophysicists (2019) Ernie Esser, Llus Guasch, Tristan van Leeuwen, Aleksandr Y. Aravkin, and Felix J. Herrmann, Total-variation regularization strategies in full-waveform inversion, SIAM Journal on Imaging Sciences, vol. 11, p. 376-406, 2018. Mathias Louboutin, Michael Lange, Felix J. Herrmann, Navjot Kukreja, and Gerard Gorman, Performance prediction of finite-difference solvers for different computer architectures, Computers & Geosciences, vol. 105, p. 148-157, 2017. Rajiv Kumar, Oscar Lopez, Damek Davis, Aleksandr Y. Aravkin, and Felix J. Herrmann, Beating level-set methods for 5D seismic data interpolation: a primal-dual alternating approach, IEEE Transactions on Computational Imaging, 2017. Ernie Esser, Llus Guasch, Felix J. Herrmann, and Mike Warner, Constrained waveform inversion for automatic salt flooding, The Leading Edge, vol. 35, p. 235-239, 2016. Oscar Lopez, Rajiv Kumar, Ozgur Yilmaz, and Felix J. Herrmann, Off-the-grid low-rank matrix recovery and seismic data reconstruction, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, vol. 10, p. 658-671, 2016. Tristan van Leeuwen and Felix J. Herrmann, A penalty method for PDE-constrained optimization in inverse problems, Inverse Problems, vol. 32, p. 015007, 2015. Curt Da Silva and Felix J. Herrmann, Optimization on the Hierarchical Tucker manifold - applications to tensor completion, Linear Algebra and Its Applications, vol. 481, p. 131-173, 2015. Aleksandr Y. Aravkin, Rajiv Kumar, Hassan Mansour, Ben Recht, and Felix J. Herrmann, Fast methods for denoising matrix completion formulations, with applications to robust seismic data interpolation, SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing, vol. 36, p. S237-S266, 2014. Tristan van Leeuwen and Felix J. Herrmann, Mitigating local minima in full-waveform inversion by expanding the search space, Geophysical Journal International, vol. 195, p. 661-667, 2013. Eldad Haber, Matthias Chung, and Felix J. Herrmann, An effective method for parameter estimation with PDE constraints with multiple right hand sides, SIAM Journal on Optimization, vol. 22, 2012. Felix J. Herrmann and Gilles Hennenfent, Non-parametric seismic data recovery with curvelet frames, Geophysical Journal International, vol. 173, p. 233-248, 2008. Gilles Hennenfent and Felix J. Herrmann, Seismic denoising with nonuniformly sampled curvelets, Computing in Science & Engineering, vol. 8, p. 16-25, 2006. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
