Manos Antonakakis | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Manos Antonakakis Job title:Associate Professor; Dean's Professorship Technical Interest Groups: Computer Systems and Software Email address:email Work phone:404/385-2534 Office:Klaus 3366 Astrolavos Lab Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Manos Antonakakis (PhD12) is an Associate Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) and an adjunct faculty member in the College of Computing (CoC), at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is responsible for the Astrolavos Lab, where students conduct research in the areas of Attack Attribution, Network Security and Privacy, Intrusion Detection, and Data Mining. In May 2012, he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Georgia Tech. Before joining the Georgia Tech ECE faculty ranks, Dr. Antonakakis held the Chief Scientist role at Damballa. He currently serves as the co-chair of the Academic Committee for the Messaging Anti-Abuse Working Group (MAAWG). In his tenure at Georgia Tech ECE, Dr. Antonakakis has raised several tens of millions in research funding as Primary Investigator from government agencies and the private sector. He is the author of several U.S. patents and more than 20 academic publications in top academic conferences. He has served as a program committee member for all top tier security conferences. Research interests: Computer and network security Attack attribution and intrusion detection Data mining and machine learning Distinctions: Google Research Award 2010 for the research paper under the title "Building a Dynamic Reputation System for DNS" Co-Chair of the academic committee at Messaging, Malware, and Mobile Anti-Abuse Working Group (M3AAWG) Author of four U.S. patents and an additional three, which are pending Program Committee member for all tier-one computer security conferences Manos Antonakakis, Tim April, Michael Bailey, Matt Bernhard, Elie Bursztein, Jaime Cochran, Zakir Durumeric, J. Alex Halderman, Luca Invernizzi, Michalis Kallitsis, Deepak Kumar, Chaz Lever, Zane Ma, Joshua Mason, Damian Menscher, Chad Seaman, Nick Sullivan, Kurt Thomas, and Yi Zhou, Understanding the Mirai Botnet, In the 26th USENIX Security Symposium, 2017. Charles Lever, Platon Kotzias, Davide Balzarotti, Juan Caballero, and Manos Antonakakis, A lustrum of malware network communication: Evolution and insights, In the 38th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2017. Terry Nelms, Roberto Perdisci, Manos Antonakakis, and Mustaque Ahamad, Towards Measuring and Mitigating Social Engineering Software Download Attacks, In the 25th USENIX Security Symposium, 2016. Charles Lever, Robert Walls, Yacin Nadji, David Dagon, Patrick McDaniel, Manos Antonakakis, Domain-Z: 28 Registrations Later --- Measuring the Exploitation of Residual Trust in Domains, In the 37th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2016. Terry Nelms, Roberto Perdisci, Manos Antonakakis, and Mustaque Ahamad. "WebWitness: Investigating, Categorizing, and Mitigating Malware Download Paths, In the USENIX Security Symposium, 2015. Yacin Nadji, Manos Antonakakis, Roberto Perdisci, Wenke Lee, David Dagon. "Beheading Hydras: Performing Effective Botnet Takedowns." 20th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS '13), November 4 - 8, 2013, Berlin, Germany. Charles Lever, Manos Antonakakis, Bradley Reaves, Patrick Traynor and Wenke Lee. "The Core of the Matter: Analyzing Malicious Traffic in Cellular Carriers", Proceedings of The 20th Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS '13), San Diego, CA, 24-27 February 2013. Manos Antonakakis, Roberto Perdisci, Yacin Nadji, Nikolaos Vasiloglou, Saeed Abu-Nimeh, Wenke Lee, David Dagon, "From Throw-Away Traffic to Bots: Detecting the Rise of DGA-Based Malware", in the 21st USENIX Security Symposium, Bellevue, WA, August 8-10, 2012. Manos Antonakakis, Roberto Perdisci, Wenke Lee, Nikolaos Vasiloglou, David Dagon, "Detecting Malware Domains at the Upper DNS Hierarchy", in the 20th USENIX Security Symposium, San Francisco, CA, August 8-12, 2011. Manos Antonakakis, Roberto Perdisci, David Dagon, Wenke Lee and Nick Feamster, "Building a Dynamic Reputation System for DNS", in the 19th USENIX Security Symposium, Washington D.C., August 11, 2010. (Recipient of Google Research Award, liaison at Google; Niels Provos.) David Dagon, Manos Antonakakis, Kevin Day, Xiapu Luo, Christopher P. Lee, and Wenke Lee, "Recursive DNS Architectures and Vulnerability Implications", In the Proceedings of The 16th Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, San Diego, CA, February 2009. David Dagon, Manos Antonakakis, Paul Vixie, Tatuya Jinmei, Wenke Lee, "Increased DNS Forgery Resistance Through 0x20-Bit Encoding", in the 15th ACM Computer and Communications Security Conference (CCS '08), Alexandria, VA, USA, October 2008. Last revised September 18, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
