Anthony Joseph Yezzi | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Anthony Joseph Yezzi Job title:Professor; Julian T. Hightower Chair Professor Technical Interest Groups: Systems and Controls Email address:email Work phone:404/385-1017 Fax:404.894.4641 Office:TSRB 427 Lab of Computational Computer Vision Dr. Yezzi's CV Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Professor Yezzi was born in Gainsville, Florida and grew up in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He obtained both his Bachelor's degree and his Ph.D. in the Department of Electrical Engineering at the University of Minnesota with minors in mathematics and music. After completing his Ph.D., he continued his research as a post-Doctoral Research Associate at the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston, MA. His research interests fall broadly within the fields of image processing and computer vision. In particular he is interested in curve and surface evolution theory and partial differential equation techniques as they apply to topics within these fields (such as segmentation, image smoothing and enhancement, optical flow, stereo disparity, shape from shading, object recognition, and visual tracking). Much of Dr. Yezzi's work is particularly tailored to problems in medical imaging, including cardiac ultrasound, MRI, and CT. He joined the Georgia Tech faculty in the fall of 1999 where he has taught courses in DSP and is working to develop advanced courses in computer vision and medical image processing. Professor Yezzi consults with industry in the areas of visual inspection and medical imaging. His hobbies include classical guitar, opera, and martial arts. Research interests: Image Processing (particularly medical imaging applications) Computer Vision Estimation and Control Computation and algorithms Applied differential geometry Distinctions: Honor Societies: Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, Golden Key Summa Cum Laude (undergraduate+graduate, University of Minnesota) EE Graduate School Fellowship, 1994-95 AT&T Ph.D. Fellowship (sponsored by Bell Laboratories), 1995-97 Outstanding Student Paper Award (CVPR, Dec. 2001, with PhD student Andy Tsai) National Science Foundation Faculty CAREER Award (2002) International Visiting Professorship (2003/2004) at University of Dauphine, Paris, France Best Paper Honorable Mention Award (ICCV, CVBIA Workshop, Oct. 2005, with post-doc Hua Li) International Visiting Professorship (2005/2006) at University of Dauphine, Paris, France Best Numerical Project-Paper Award, (SSVM, June 2007, with PhD student Ganesh Sundaramoorthi) Invited International Lecturer for University of Bologna, International Engineering Master's Program (Oct. 2009, Sept./Oct. 2010, Sept./Oct. 2011, and Sept./Oct. 2013) Ken Byers Endowed Professorship (2012-2013), School of ECE, Georgia Tech Julian Hightower Endowed Chair (since 2013), School of ECE, Georgia Tech Fulbright Teaching and Research Award, University of Palermo, Italy, February-June, 2016 Board member, University Campus Bio-Medico of Rome, Italy, Ph.D. program in Science and Technology for Humans and the Environment (since March, 2017) For a complete list of Dr. Yezzi's publications, see the list available on the LCCV website. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
