William Alan Doolittle | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:William Alan Doolittle Job title:Professor; Joseph M. Pettit Professor Technical Interest Groups: Nanotechnology Email address:email Work phone:404/894-9884 Fax:404.894.9884 Office:MIRC 209 http://users.ece.gatech.edu/~alan Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Professor Doolittle is a native of Jonesboro, Georgia. He graduated from Georgia Tech with a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering with highest honors in 1989. He later received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering in 1996 from Georgia Tech. His thesis work revolved around identifying the device limiting defects in photovoltaic silicon materials using several custom designed and patented tools. He later worked as a Research Engineer II in the area of compound semiconductor growth with emphasis on wide bandgap semiconductors. He joined the Georgia Tech faculty in 2001. During his time at Georgia Tech he has helped develop academic programs in the areas of microelectronic fabrication, materials growth, characterization, and measurement system design. Professor Doolittle consults with industry in the areas of law, materials testing, MBE growth, and test equipment development. His hobbies include bible studies, classic cars, playing the guitar, and reading. Most of his free time is spent with his two teenage children. Research interests: Wide bandgap semiconductor materials and devices Dielectric materials growth and characterization Electrical, optical and structural characterization and optimization of electronic materials and devices Microelectronic device/circuit fabrication Neuromorphic computational devices Distinctions: Dr. Doolittle has authored/co-authored over 118 research papers and 101 presentations (34 invited) as well as numerous technical reports and patents. Dr. Doolittle was the lead PI on two MURI programs focusing on the development of next generation epitaxial systems for three-dimensional epitaxy and on the development and exploitation of epitaxial multifunctional oxides, a newly developing family of materials. In 2004, Dr. Doolittle received a NSF CAREER award for his efforts to integrate, understand, and utilize crystalline ferroelectric materials with wide bandgap semiconductors. In both 2003 and again in 2011, Dr. Doolittle won the Richard M. Bass/Eta Kappa Nu ECE Outstanding Teacher Award, and in 2003, he also won the Institute-wide Georgia Tech Undergraduate Student Government Faculty of the Year Award. Dr. Doolittle won the 2005 ECE Outstanding Junior Faculty Member Award and the Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company's Dean's Award for Teaching Excellence. Dr. Doolittle won the Class of 1940 Teaching Award in 2006, and the 2008 Georgia Institute of Technology Outstanding Achievement in Research Program Development Award. Gon Namkoong, William A. Doolittle, Stuart R. Stock and April S. Brown, "Characterization and Optimization of Magnesium Doped GaN", Appl. Phys. Letters, Vol. 77 #6, 25 Dec. 2000 W. A. Doolittle, S. Kang, and A. S. Brown, "MBE growth of high quality GaN on LiGaO2 for high frequency, high power electronic applications", Solid St. Electronics, Vol. 44, #2, February 2000 Invited: William A. Doolittle, April S. Brown, and Ajeet Rohatgi, "Characterization of SiC and GaN for Minority Carrier Devices", TMS Workshop on Minority Carrier Wide bandgap Devices, Panama City, FL Feb. 1999 W. A. Doolittle, and A. Rohatgi, "A new figure of merit and methodology for quantitatively determining defect resolution capabilities in Deep level Transient Spectroscopy analysis", J. Appl. Phys., vol. 75, no. 9, p. 4570-4575, 1 May (1994) Z. Chen, K. Yastuke, W. A. Doolittle, and A. Rohatgi, "Record low SiO2 / Si interface state density for low temperature oxides prepared by direct plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition", Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 63, no. 15, 11 Oct. (1993) W. A. Doolittle, and A. Rohatgi, "A novel computer based pseudo-logarithmic capacitance/conductance DLTS system specifically designed for transient analysis", Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 63, 5733 (1992) Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
