Brendan D Saltaformaggio | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Brendan D Saltaformaggio Job title:Assistant Professor Technical Interest Groups: Computer Systems and Software Email address:email Work phone:404/894-8362 Office:Klaus 2314 Academic and Research website Cyber Forensics Innovation (CyFI) Laboratory Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Brendan Saltaformaggio is an Assistant Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Georgia Tech, with a courtesy appointment in the School of Computer Science. His research interests lie in computer systems security, cyber forensics, and the vetting of untrusted software. Dr. Saltaformaggio serves as the Director of the Cyber Forensics Innovation (CyFI) Laboratory. The CyFI Lab's mission is to further the investigation of advanced cyber crimes and the analysis and prevention of next-generation malware attacks, particularly in mobile and IoT environments. This research has led to numerous publications at top cyber security venues, including a Best Paper Award from the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS15) and a Best Student Paper Award from the 2014 USENIX Security Symposium. Originally from New Orleans, Dr. Saltaformaggio earned his Bachelor of Science with Honors in Computer Science from the University of New Orleans in 2012. He received his M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science at Purdue University in 2014 and 2016, respectively, during which Dr. Saltaformaggio was honored with the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Doctoral Dissertation Award as well as two fellowships: the 2016 Symantec Research Labs Graduate Fellowship and the inaugural Emil Stefanov Memorial Fellowship in Computer Science. Research interests: Computer Systems Security Cyber Forensics Vetting of Untrusted Software Binary Analysis and Instrumentation Mobile and IoT Security Distinctions: Best Paper Award from the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) - 2015 Best Student Paper Award from the USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security) - 2014 Inaugural Recipient of the Emil Stefanov Memorial Fellowship - 2016 Symantec Research Labs Graduate Fellowship - 2016 ACM SIGSAC Doctoral Dissertation Award - 2017 Y. Kwon, B. Saltaformaggio, I. L. Kim, K. H. Lee, X. Zhang, and D. Xu, A2C: Self destructing exploit executions via input perturbation, Proceedings of Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS17), 2017. B. Saltaformaggio, R. Bhatia, X. Zhang, D. Xu, and G. G. Richard III, Screen after previous screens: Spatial-temporal recreation of android app displays from memory images, Proceedings of USENIX Security Symposium (Security16), 2016. B. Saltaformaggio, H. Choi, K. Johnson, Y. Kwon, Q. Zhang, X. Zhang, D. Xu, and J. Qian, Eavesdropping on fine-grained user activities within smartphone apps over encrypted network traffic, Proceedings of USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT16), in conjunction with Security16), 2016. Z. Deng, B. Saltaformaggio, X. Zhang, and D. Xu, iRiS: Vetting private API abuse in iOS applications, Proceedings of ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS15), 2015. B. Saltaformaggio, R. Bhatia, Z. Gu, X. Zhang, and D. Xu, VCR: App-agnostic recovery of photographic evidence from android device memory images, Proceedings of ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS15), 2015. B. Saltaformaggio, R. Bhatia, Z. Gu, X. Zhang, and D. Xu, GUITAR: Piecing together android app GUIs from memory images, Proceedings of ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS15), 2015, Best Paper Award. B. Saltaformaggio, Z. Gu, X. Zhang, and D. Xu, DSCRETE: Automatic rendering of forensic information from memory images via application logic reuse, Proceedings of USENIX Security Symposium (Security14), 2014, Best Student Paper Award. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
