Azad J Naeemi | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Azad J Naeemi Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: Nanotechnology Email address:email Work phone:404/894-4829 Fax:404.894.5028 Office:MiRC 216 http://nrl.gatech.edu Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Professor Naeemi received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Sharif University, Tehran, Iran in 1994, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical and computer engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Ga. in 2001 and 2003, respectively. Prior to his graduate studies (from 1994 to 1999), he was a design engineer with Partban and Afratab Companies, both located in Tehran, Iran. He worked as a research engineer in the Microelectronics Research Center at Georgia Tech from 2004 to 2008 and joined the ECE faculty at Georgia Tech in fall 2008. His research crosses theboundariesof materials, devices, circuits, and systems investigating integrated circuits based on conventional and emergingnanoelectronicand spintronic devices and interconnects. Dr. Naeemi serves as the leader of the beyond-CMOS benchmarking research at the Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) Nanoelectronics Research Initiative (NRI) and the Semiconductor Technology Advanced Research Network (STARnet). He is the recipient of the IEEE Electron Devices Society (EDS) Paul Rappaport Award for the best paper that appeared in IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices during 2007. He has received an NSF CAREER Award, an SRC Inventor Recognition Award, and several best paper awards at international conferences. Research interests: Emerging nanoelectronic devices and circuits Spintronic devices and interconnects Carbon nanotube and graphene devices and interconnects Circuit and system implications of emerging devices Design and optimization for nanoscale technologies Distinctions: Richard M. Bass/Eta Kappa Nu Outstanding Teacher Award - selected by the vote of the ECE senior class, 2014 ECE Outstanding Junior Faculty Member Award 2014 NSF CAREER Award, 2013 General Co-Chair, IEEE Int. Interconnect Technology Conf., 2013 SRC Inventor Recognition Award, 2010 IEEE EDS Paul Rappaport Award, 2008 Senior Member, IEEE Colonel Oscar P. Cleaver Award, given by the School of ECE at Georgia Tech, 2000 A. Naeemi and J. D. Meindl, "Electron transport modeling for junctions of zigzag and armchair graphene nanoribbons," IEEE Electron Device Letters, vol. 29, pp. 497-499, May 2008. Book Chapter: A. Naeemi and J. D. Meindl, "Carbon nanotube interconnect modeling,' in Carbon Nanotube Electronics, J. Kong and A. Javey (Eds.), Springer 2008. A. Naeemi and J. D. Meindl, "Design and performance modeling for single-wall carbon nanotubes as local, semi-global, and global interconnects in gigascale integrated systems," IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, vol. 54, pp. 26-37, January 2007. R. Sarvari, A. Naeemi, and James. D. Meindl, "Impact of size effects on the resistivity of copper wires and consequently the design and performance of metal interconnect networks," IEEE Intl. Interconnect Technology Conf., June 2005, pp. 197-199. A. Naeemi, R. Sarvari, and J. D. Meindl, "Performance comparison between carbon nanotube and copper interconnects for gigascale integration (GSI)," IEEE Electron Device Letters, vol. 26, pp. 84-86, Feb. 2005. A. Naeemi, R. Venkatesan, and J. D. Meindl, "Optimal global interconnects for GSI," IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, vol. 50, pp. 980-987, April 2003. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
