Thomas G Habetler | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Thomas G Habetler Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: Electrical Energy Email address:email Work phone:404/894-9829 Fax:404.894.4641 Office:VL E172 Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Prof. Habetler is a native of Racine, Wisconsin. He received the B.S.E.E. degree in 1981 and the M.S. degree in electrical engineering in 1984 from Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and the Ph.D. degree from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, in 1989. From 1983-1985, he was employed by the Electro-Motive Division of General Motors as a Project Engineer. While there, he was involved in the design of switching power supplies and voltage regulators for locomotive applications. In 1985, he was awarded the General Motors Fellowship to attend the University of Wisconsin-Madison. His research interests are in the design and protection and condition monitoring of electric machines, efficient building electrical systems, power electronics, and drives. Dr. Habetler is most well-known for his work in sensorless (current- and voltage-based) condition monitoring of electric machines. This includes sensorless bearing fault detection, turn-to-turn insulation fault detection and rotating mechanical fault/unbalance detection. Practical, low cost on-line motor monitoring has been achieved in his work through the use of intelligent systems that eliminate the need for maintenance experts to interpret data related to the health of electrical equipment. He currently serves as President of the IEEE Power Electronics Society, and as Chair of the Industrial Power Converter Committee of the IEEE Industry Applications Society. He has published over 325 technical papers in power electronics and electric machines, and is a regular consultant to industry. He was also awarded 21 patents in the field of motor protection and monitoring. He has served on the IEEE Board of Directors as the Division II Director, and on the Technical Activities Board, the Member and Geographic Activities Board, the IEEE-USA Board of Directors, and is a past president of the IEEE Power Electronics Society. In addition, Dr. Habetler has served in numerous chair and committee positions at the corporate level of the IEEE. Dr. Habetler is a Fellow of the IEEE. Research interests: Current-based condition monitoring of electric machines Control of electric machine drives Power electronics Design and protection of electric machines Distinctions: Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). Elected in 2002 with citation, For contributions to electric motor control and condition monitoring. IEEE-PELS Diagnostics Achievement Award, 2009. European Power Electronics and Motion Control (EPE-PEMC) Outstanding Achievement Award, 2008. 2012 IEEE Power Electronics Society Harry A. Owen Distinguished Service Award. 2012 IEEE Industry Applications Society Gerald B. Kliman Innovator Award. 2012 IEEE Industrial Electronics Society Annual Conference, Most Cited Author Award. Numerous Prize Paper Awards Shen Zhang; Sufei Li; Ronald G. Harley; Thomas G. Habetler, Performance evaluation and comparison of multi-objective optimization algorithms for the analytical design of switched reluctance machines, Invited paper in the inaugural edition of the CES Transactions on Electrical Machines and Systems, Volume: 1, Issue: 1, 2017, Pages: 58-65. Liang Du; Dawei He; Ronald G. Harley; Thomas G. Habetler, Electric Load Classification by Binary VoltageCurrent Trajectory Mapping, IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, Year: 2016, Volume: 7, Issue: 1, Pages: 358 365. Bin Gou; Xinglai Ge; Shunliang Wang; Xiaoyun Feng; James B. Kuo; Thomas G. Habetler, An Open-Switch Fault Diagnosis Method for Single-Phase PWM Rectifier Using a Model-Based Approach in High-Speed Railway Electrical Traction Drive System, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Year: 2016, Volume: 31, Issue: 5, Pages: 3816-3826. Joan Pons-Llinaresa, Martn Riera-Guaspa, Jose A. Antonino-Daviub, Thomas G. Habetler, Pursuing optimal electric machines transient diagnosis: The adaptive slope transform, Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, Volume 80, 1 December 2016, Pages 553569. Dang, J.; Rhett Mayor, J.; Semidey, S.A.; Harley, R.G.; Habetler, T.G.; Restrepo, J.A., Practical Considerations for the Design and Construction of a High-Speed SRM With a Flux-Bridge Rotor, IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 2015, Volume: 51, Issue: 6, Pages: 4515-4520. Nan Liu; Habetler, T.G., Design of a Universal Inductive Charger for Multiple Electric Vehicle Models, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Year: 2015, Volume: 30, Issue: 11, Pages: 6378-6390. Liang Du; Yi Yang; Dawei He; Ronald G. Harley; Thomas G. Habetler, Feature Extraction for Load Identification Using Long-Term Operating Waveforms, IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, Year: 2015, Volume: 6, Issue: 2, Pages: 819-826. Lijun He; Siwei Cheng; Yi Du; Harley, R.G.; Habetler, T.G., Stator Temperature Estimation of Direct-Torque-Controlled Induction Machines via Active Flux or Torque Injection, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Year: 2015, Volume: 30, Issue: 2, Pages: 888-899. Liang Du; Yi Yang; Dawei He; Harley, R.G.; Habetler, T.G., Feature Extraction for Load Identification Using Long-Term Operating Waveforms, IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, Year: 2015, Volume: 6, Issue: 2, Pages: 819-826. Yi Deng; Koon Hoo Teo; Chunjie Duan; Habetler, T.G.; Harley, R.G., A Fast and Generalized Space Vector Modulation Scheme for Multilevel Inverters, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Year: 2014, Volume: 29, Issue: 10, Pages: 5204-5217. Liang Du; Restrepo, J.A.; Yi Yang; Harley, R.G.; Habetler, T.G., Nonintrusive, Self-Organizing, and Probabilistic Classification and Identification of Plugged-In Electric Loads, IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2013, Volume: 4, Issue: 3, 2013, Pages: 1371-1380. Bueno, A.; Aller, J.M.; Restrepo, J.A.; Harley, R.; Habetler, T.G., Harmonic and Unbalance Compensation Based on Direct Power Control for Electric Railway Systems, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Volume: 28, Issue: 12, 2013, Pages: 5823-5831. Grubic, S.; Restrepo, J.; Habetler, T.G., Online Surge Testing Applied to an Induction Machine With Emulated Insulation Breakdown, IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, 2013, Volume: 49, Issue: 3 Pages: 1358-1366. Last revised September 18, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
