Abdallah Ougazzaden | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Abdallah Ougazzaden Job title:Professor; Director of the International Joint Research Unit "UMI 2958 GT-CNRS"; Director of Georgia Tech-Lorraine; Co-President of the Lafayette Institute Technical Interest Groups: Nanotechnology, Optics and Photonics Email address:email Work phone:0033387203923 Fax:33 3 87 20 3940 Office:GTL Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Abdallah Ougazzaden received his masters and doctoral degrees in materials sciences and his HDR "Accreditation to Supervise Research" degree from the University of Paris VII Paris (France) in 1986, 1990 and 1996, respectively. From 1999 to 2003, he worked as a Technical Manager in the Materials Growth and Characterisations group at Bell-Labs Lucent Technologies, and with its ICs/Optoelectronics spin-off Agere Systems. From here, Dr. Ougazzaden worked for TriQuint Optoelectronics (formerly Agere Systems/Optoelectronics). Prior to joining Bell-Labs he led the MOCVD group at CNET/ France Telecom for more than 8 years and spent a year at Optoplus/Alcatel. From 2003 to 2005 he was a professor at the University of Metz and Deputy Director of Materials, Optics, Photonics and Systems (MOPS) laboratory, a joint lab of the High Engineering School SUPELEC and CNRS in Metz, France. He joined the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2005 as professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. In 2006, Prof. Ougazzaden was appointed to the position of Director of the International Joint Research Unit GT-CNRS at GTL in France and in 2010 he was appointed to the position of director of Georgia Tech-Lorraine. He is co-founder and co-president of the Lafayette Institute, Platform of Technology Transfer, created in 2012. He has authored and co-authored more than 200 international scientific papers and holds 23 patents. Research interests: Epitaxial growth of Nitride-based semiconductor materials by MOVPE Epitaxial growth of InP based materials by MOVPE Optoelectronic devices micro/nano fabrication Materials Characterizations III-V Semiconductor device physics Distinctions: CNET/France Telecom Award 1990 Medale of City of Metz, France 2014 2013 Steven A. Denning Faculty Award for Global Engagement GIT, Member Member of Organization Committee of European Workshop, MOVPE Member of the International Advisory Committee, International Conference, MOVPE Chair and organiser of the International Conference MOVPE 2008, Metz, France Member of steering committee and expert on nanotechnology for the Parliamentary Office for Scientific and Technological Choices (OPECST) Member Expert in French Research Agency M. Abid, T. Moudakir, S. Gautier, A. En Naciri, A-M. Dubois, Z. Djebbour, A. Ougazzaden, "Blue-Violet Boron-based distributed Bragg Reflectors for VCSEL application," Journal of Crystal Growth, Volume 315, Issue 1 (2011). D. J . Rogers, F. Hosseini Teherani, T. Moudakir, S. Gautier, F. Wyczisk, G. Garry, D. McGrouther, J. N. Chapman, F. Jomard, A. Lusson, M. Molinari, M. Troyon, M. Razeghi, and A. Ougazzaden, "Microstructural, Compositional & Optical Characteristics of GaN Grown by MOVPE on ZnO Epilayers", J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B, 27(3) (2009) A. Sirenko, A. Kazimirov, R. Huang, D.H. Bilderback, S. O'Malley, V. Gupta, K. Bacher, L.J.P. Ketelsen, and A. Ougazzaden, Micro-beam high-resolution x-ray diffraction in strained InGaAlAs-based multiple quantum well laser structures grown selectively on masked InP substrates", Journal of Applied Physics, March 2005. R. Paiella, Ph.A. Kiely, A. Ougazzaden, J. W. Stayt, Jr , A. Sirenko, et al., 10 Gb/s transmitter based on a directly modulated InGaAlAs laser operating up to 126 oC Electronics Letters, 39 (23): Pages: 1653-1654 NOV 13, 2003. B. Mason, A. Ougazzaden, C.W. Lentz, K.G. Glogovsky, C.L. Reynolds, G.J. Przybylek, R. E. Leibenguth, T. L. Kercher, J. W. Boardman, M. T. Rader, J. M. Geary, F.S. Walters, L. J. Peticolas, J. M. Freund, S. N. G. Chu, A. Sirenko, and R. J. Jurchenko, "40-Gbit/s tandem electroabsorption modulator", IEEE Photonics Technology Letters, vol. 14, issue 1, pp. 27-29, January 2002. A. Ougazzaden, Y. Le Bellego, E. V. K. Rao, M. Juhel, L. Leprince, and G.Patriarche, Metal organic vapor phase epitaxy growth of GaAsN on GaAs using dimethylhydrazine and tertiarybutylarsine, Appl. Phys Lett. 70, 2861 (1997) Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
