Steven W McLaughlin | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Steven W McLaughlin Job title:Professor; Provost/Executive Vice President-Academic Affairs Technical Interest Groups: Telecommunications Email address:email Work phone:404/894-6825 Office:VL W215 http://users.ece.gatech.edu/~swm Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Steven W. McLaughlin is the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairsat Georgia Tech. He serves as the chief academic officer of the Institute and providesleadership to all academic and related units, including the colleges, the library, and professional education. Dr. McLaughlin received the B.S.E.E. degree from Northwestern University, the M.S.E. degree from Princeton University, and the Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan. He joined the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Georgia Tech in September 1996. From 2017-2020, he served as the Dean of the College of Engineering and the Southern Company Chair.From 2012-2017, he served as the Steve W. Chaddick School Chair in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. From 2007-2012, he was Vice Provost for International Initiatives and Steven A. Denning Chair in Global Engagement. In 2014, Dr. McLaughlin co-founded CREATE-X, a campus-wide effort to instill entrepreneurial confidence in students and help them launch companies. In its first three years, the program has successfully launched 72 student-led companies and engaged 1,500+ students in the principles and practice of evidence-based entrepreneurship. In 2011, Dr. McLaughlin was awarded the honor Chevalier dans l`Ordre Nationale de Merite, (Knight of the French National Order of Merit), the second highest civilian award given by Republic of France. He was the first Georgia Tech recipient of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), where he was cited by President Clinton "for leadership in the development of high-capacity, nonbinary optical recording formats." He a past President of the IEEE Information Theory Society and is a Fellow of the IEEE.. Dr. McLaughlin's research interests are in the general area of communications and information theory. His research group has published in the areas of forward error correction and equalization in wireless communications. magnetic/optical data storage, data security, and privacy. His group has published more than 250 papers in journals and conferences and holds 36 U.S. patents. Research interests: Communications and information theory Error control coding: iterative decoding, turbo codes, graphical codes Coding and signal processing for magnetic/optical storage and fiber optic transmission systems Quantum key distribution Distinctions: Chevalier dans l'Ordre National du Mrite, (Knight of the National Order of Merit), given by the President of the Republic of France (2011) President, IEEE Information Theory Society (2005) National Science Foundation Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) NSF Career Award NSF Research Initiation Award Technical Achievement Award, Information Storage Industries Consortium, INSIC Georgia Tech Graduate Student Association "Friend of the Graduate Student Award" F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Rate 1/L Block Codes Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms; A New Class of Maximum Distance Separable Codes and more," in Proc. Conf. on Information Sciences and Systems, Princeton, NJ, March 15-17, 2000. L. McPheters K. Narayanan, and S.W. McLaughlin, "Precoded PRML, serial concatenation and iterative (turbo) decoding,'' IEEE Transactions on Magnetics, vol. 35, no. 5, pp. 2325-2328, September 1999. F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Error Control Coding Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms: Double Circulant Codes," submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 1999. F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Convolutional Coding Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms," to appear in Proc. of the Thirty-Eighth Annual Allerton Conference. S, Verdu and S. McLaughlin, Information Theory: 50 Years of Discovery (IEEE Press, 1999). F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Double Circulant Self-Dual Codes Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms," Springer-Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS); Applied Algebra, Algebraic Algorithms and Error-Correcting Codes, pp. 355-364, 1999. Steven W. McLaughlin, O. Milenkovic, B.V. Vasic: "Channel Capacity of M-ary Redundant Multitrack Runlength Limited Codes," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 766-774, 1998. Steven W. McLaughlin, L. McPheters, W. Ryan: "Turbo Coding and Equalization for PR4 Equalized Lorentzian Channels," Conference on Information Sciences and Systems, Princeton, NJ, 1998. S.W. McLaughlin, "Shedding light on the future of optical recording," IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, Special Issue on Signal Processing for Digital Recording, vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 83-94, July1998. Steven W. McLaughlin, O. Milenkovic, B.V. Vasic: "Power Spectral Density of Multitrack (0,G/I) Codes," Electronic Letters, vol. 33, no. 9, pp. 784-786, 1997. Steven W. McLaughlin: "Runlength Limited Code for Multilevel Data," twelve separate patents issued by ETOM Technologies, Inc. from August-October 1997, 1997. S.W. McLaughlin, "The construction of M-ary codes that achieve capacity and have the fewest number of encoder states," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 43, no. 2, pp. 699-703, March 1997. R. Cloke, P. Lee, Steven W. McLaughlin: "Codes for Improved Timing Recovery in PR4 and EPR4 Magnetic Recording," Proceedings of Globecom 1997, CD-ROM, session 35, no. 1, Phoenix, AZ, no. 1, 1997. Last revised November 19, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
