Faramarz Fekri | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Faramarz Fekri Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: Telecommunications, Digital Signal Processing Email address:email Work phone:404/894-3335 Fax:404.894.8363 Office:Cent 5238 http://users.ece.gatech.edu/~fekri Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Faramarz Fekri received the B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees from Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran. Before coming to Georgia Tech, he was with the Telecommunication Research Laboratories (TRLabs), Calgary, Canada. In Fall of 1996, he started his Ph.D. studies at Georgia Tech. After receiving his Ph.D. degree in Summer 2000, Dr. Fekri joined the faculty of the School of ECE at Georgia Tech, where he is now a full professor. He is a member of the Center for Signal and Information Processing (CSIP), the Center for Energy and Geo Processing (CeGP), the Center for The Machine Learning at Georgia Tech, and the Georgia Tech Information Security Center (GTISC). He was also affiliated with the Georgia Tech Broadband Institute (GTBI). Prof. Fekri is the founder of the SPC Research Lab that has a multidisciplinary flavor working in three intertwined areas of Sensing, Processing, and Communications. In particular, he applies signal processing, statistics, and information theory to fundamental research problems in biology, social computing, robotics, and wireless communications. In the past. Prof. Fekri and his research group were investigating the theory and practice of error correction codes, finite-field wavelets, communication security, the application of mathematical tools to modern networking, spanning from performance characterization of wired/wireless networks to the design, analysis, and optimization of communication protocols. Dr. Fekri serves on the editorial board of the IEEE Transactions on Molecular, Biological, and Multi-Scale Communications, and on both the Executive and Technical Program Committees of several IEEE conferences. In the past, he served on the editorial board of IEEE Transactions on Communications, and the Elsevier Journal on PHYCOM. Dr. Fekri has received several prestigious awards, including the Outstanding Junior Faculty Member Award of the School of ECE, Southeastern Center for Electrical Engineering Education (SCEEE) Young Faculty Development Award, National Science Foundation CAREER Award, the Cutting Edge Research Award (co-recipient) from the College of Engineering, and Best Ph.D. Thesis Award of the Georgia Institute of Technology chapter of Sigma Xi. He is an IEEE Fellow. Research interests: Compression Social Computing Molecular Communications Biomarker Sensing Neural Computing Wireless Communications Coding and Information Theory Distinctions: Outstanding Junior Faculty Member Award from School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, (2006). Southeastern Center for Electrical Engineering Education (SCEEE) Young Faculty Development Award, (2003). National Science Foundation Career Award for Wavelet Coding and Cryptography, (2001). Sigma Xi Best Ph.D. Thesis Award of the Georgia Institute of Technology, (2000). Outstanding Graduate Research Award, Center for Signal and Image Processing, Georgia Institute of Technology, (2000). Cutting Edge Research Award (co-recipient), granted by College of Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, (1999). Distinction Award, TRLabs (Telecommunication Research Laboratories) Scholarship and Fellowship, Calgary, Canada, (1995 and 1996). IEEE Fellow F. Fekri, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "A Generalized Interpolative VQ Method for Jointly Optimal Quantization, Interpolation, and Binarization of Text Images," IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, vol. 9, pp. 1272-1281, July, 2000. F. Fekri, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Realization of Paraunitary Filter Banks over Fields of Characteristic Two," in Proc. of IEEE Int. Conf. Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Proc., Turkey, 2000. F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Rate 1/L Block Codes Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms; A New Class of Maximum Distance Separable Codes and more," in Proc. Conf. on Information Sciences and Systems, Princeton, NJ, March 15-17, 2000. F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Convolutional Coding Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms," to appear in Proc. of the Thirty-Eighth Annual Allerton Conference. F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Double Circulant Self-Dual Codes Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms," Springer-Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS); Applied Algebra, Algebraic Algorithms and Error-Correcting Codes, pp. 355-364, 1999. F. Fekri, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Theory of Paraunitary Filter Banks over Fields of Characteristic Two," submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 1999. F. Fekri, S.W. McLaughlin, R.M. Mersereau, R.W. Schafer: "Error Control Coding Using Finite Field Wavelet Transforms: Double Circulant Codes," submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 1999. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
