Stanislav Emelianov | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Stanislav Emelianov Job title:Professor; Joseph M. Pettit Chair; Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar Technical Interest Groups: Bioengineering, Optics and Photonics Email address:email Work phone:404/385-0373 Office:MoSE 4100M Ultrasound Imaging and Therapeutics Research Laboratory Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Stanislav Emelianov is a Joseph M. Pettit Endowed Chair, Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar, and Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Biomedical Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is also appointed at the Emory University School of Medicine, where he is affiliated with Winship Cancer Institute, Department of Radiology, and other clinical units. Furthermore, Dr. Emelianov is Director of the Ultrasound Imaging and Therapeutics Research Laboratory at the Georgia Institute of Technology focused on the translation of diagnostic imaging & therapeutic instrumentation, and nanobiotechnology for clinical applications. Throughout his career, Dr. Emelianov has been devoted to the development of advanced imaging methods capable of detecting and diagnosing cancer and other pathologies, assisting treatment planning, and enhancing image-guided therapy and monitoring of the treatment outcome. He is specifically interested in intelligent biomedical imaging and sensing ranging from molecular imaging to small animal imaging to clinical applications. Furthermore, Dr. Emelianov develops approaches for image-guided molecular therapy and therapeutic applications of ultrasound and electromagnetic energy. Finally, nanobiotechnology plays a critical role in his research. In the course of his work, Dr. Emelianov has pioneered several ultrasound-based imaging techniques, including shear wave elasticity imaging and molecular photoacoustic imaging. Overall, projects in Dr. Emelianov's laboratory, which focuses on cancer and other diseases, range from molecular imaging to functional imaging and tissue differentiation, from drug delivery and release to image-guided surgery and intervention. Research interests: Medical diagnostic and therapeutic ultrasound Molecular and functional imaging Image-guided therapy and monitoring of treatment outcome Nanobiotechnology: imaging contrast agents and therapeutic constructs Medical devices, instrumentation, and algorithms Distinctions: Joseph M. Pettit Endowed Chair, Georgia Institute of Technology (2015-present) Eminent Scholar, Georgia Research Alliance, Atlanta, GA (2015-present) Editor, Photoacoustics (Elsevier) (2012-present) Appointed to the Editorial Board of the IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control (2005-present) Elected to College of Fellows, American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (2011) Vice President for Ultrasonics, IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control Society (2011-2014) Outstanding Professor Award, Alpha Lambda Delta and Phi Eta Sigma, and Teaching Excellence Award, Student Engineering Council, University of Texas at Austin (2004) Research Excellence Award, College of Engineering, University of Michigan at Ann Arbor (2000) Y.-S. Chen, S.J. Yoon, W. Frey, M. Dockery, and S.Y. Emelianov, Photothermal Stimuli-Responsive Photoacoustic Nanoamplifier for Dynamic-Contrast Imaging, Nature Communications, 2017 Jun 8;8:15782. doi: 10.1038/ncomms15782 (2017) PubMed link for Stanislav Emelianov: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Stanislav+Emelianov Google Scholar link for Stanislav Emelianov: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=MYCK3VYAAAAJ&hl=en D.Y. Santiesteban, D.S. Dumani, D. Profili, and S.Y. Emelianov, Copper sulfide perfluorocarbon nanodroplets as clinically relevant photoacoustic/ultrasound imaging agents, NanoLetters, 17 (10), pp 59845989 (2017) G.P. Luke and S.Y. Emelianov, Label free detection of lymph node metastases with ultrasound-guided functional photoacoustic imaging, Radiology, 277(2):435442 (2015) S. Kim, Y.-S. Chen, G.P. Luke, and S. Emelianov, Ultrasound and photoacoustic image-guided photothermal cancer therapy: in-vivo study using silica-coated gold nanorods, IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control, 61(5):891-897 (2014) D. Yeager, Y.-S. Chen, S. Litovsky, and S. Emelianov, Intravascular photoacoustics for image-guidance and temperature monitoring during plasmonic photothermal therapy of atherosclerotic plaques: a feasibility study, Theranostics, 4(1):36-46 (2014) J. Cook, W. Frey, and S. Emelianov, Quantitative photoacoustic imaging of nanoparticles in cells and tissues, ACS Nano, 7 (2):12721280 (2013) M. Mehrmohammadi, T.-H. Shin, M. Qu, P. Kruizinga, J.H. Lee, J. Cheon, and S. Emelianov, In-vivo pulsed magneto-motive ultrasound imaging using high-performance magnetoactive contrast nanoagents, Nanoscale, 5, 11179-11186 (2013) S.Y. Nam, L.M. Ricles, L.J. Suggs, and S.Y. Emelianov, In vivo ultrasound and photoacoustic monitoring of mesenchymal stem cells labeled with gold nanotracers, PLoS ONE 7(5): e37267. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0037267 (2012) Y-S. Chen, W. Frey, S. Kim, P. Kruizinga, K. Homan, and S. Emelianov, Silica-coated gold nanorods as photoacoustic signal nanoamplifiers, Nano Letters 11 (2), 348354 (2011) S. Emelianov, P.-C. Li, and M. ODonnell, Photoacoustics for molecular imaging and therapy, Physics Today, May 2009, 34-39 (2009) B. Wang, E. Yantsen, T. Larson, A.B. Karpiouk, S. Sethuraman, J.L. Su, K. Sokolov, and S. Emelianov, Plasmonic intravascular photoacoustic imaging for detection of macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques, Nano Letters, 9(6), 22122217 (2009) [Cover image] S. Mallidi, T. Larson, J. Tam, P. Joshi, A. Karpiouk, K. Sokolov, and S. Emelianov, Multi-wavelength photoacoustic imaging and plasmon resonance coupling of gold nanoparticles for selective detection of cancer, Nano Letters, 9(8):2825-31 (2009) A.P. Sarvazyan, O.V. Rudenko, S.D. Swanson, J.B. Fowlkes, and S.Y. Emelianov, Shear wave elasticity imaging: a new ultrasonic technology of medical diagnostics, Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology, 24, 1419-1436 (1998) Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
