Rao R Tummala | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Rao R Tummala Retired Job title:RBW-Faculty; Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar Technical Interest Groups: Nanotechnology Email address:email http://www.raotummala.com Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Professor Rao Tummala held the Joseph M. Pettit Chair in Electronics Packaging in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a joint faculty appointment in the School of Materials Science and Engineering at Georgia Tech from 1993-2019. He was also the Founding Director of an NSF Engineering Research Center (ERC) called the Microsystems Packaging Research Center (PRC) pioneering the Second Law of Electronics (the first being Moore's Law) by his System-On-Package (SOP) vision. The PRC is currently the largest and most comprehensive microsystems packaging research, education and industry collaboration Center involving 200 students and 15 faculty from ECE, ME, ChE and MSE departments, and 40 global companies from the U.S., Europe and Asia. He was also a Georgia Research Alliance Eminent Scholar from 1993-2019. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Prof. Tummala was a Fellow at IBM Corporation where he invented a number of major technologies for IBM's products for displaying, printing, magnetic storage, and packaging. He was the lead materials scientist pioneering the industry's first flat panel display in the 1970s and was the technical leader and program manager for the industry's first R&D in multi-chip-module (MCM) leading to the first 61-layer, low-temperature, co-fired ceramic (LTCC) in 1980s. He was the Director of IBM's Advanced Packaging Research laboratory responsible for IBM's Strategy and Programs in the U.S., Europe and Japan before accepting a research center directorship at the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993. Prof. Tummala received many academic, industry and professional society awards including "Industry Week's" one of the 50 stars in the U.S. for improving U.S. competitiveness, the David Sarnoff Award, the Third Millennium Award from IEEE, Daniel Hughes and John Wagnon's Award from IMAPS, Materials Engineering Achievement Award from ASM-International, the John Jeppson Award from American Ceramic Society, the Total Excellence Award in Electronics Manufacturing (TEEM) Award from the Society of Manufacturing Engineers, and the European Materials Award from DVM. He also received the Distinguished Alumni Award from the University of Illinois and the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. Most recently, he received the highest faculty award, the Distinguished Professor Award from Georgia Tech. Prof. Tummala has published over 320 technical papers, holds 71 U.S. patents and inventions, and authored the first modern reference book for microsystems packaging in 1988, and the first undergraduate textbook in 2001. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, IMAPS, and the American Ceramic Society; a member of the National Academy of Engineering, and was the President of the IEEE-CPMT Society and IMAPS Society. He is a consultant to many of the Fortune 500 electronics companies in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Research interests: Microsystems systems packaging Electronic materials Display technologies Magnetic storage Distinctions: IEEE EAB Major Educational Innovation Award (2003) Third Millenium Award from IEEE (2000) John Jeppson Award from American Ceramic Society (1997) IEEE Fellow (1993) Member National Academy of Engineering, USA (1993) Engineering Materials Achievement Award from ASM-International (1992) David Sarnoff Award for Industry's first MCM from IEEE (1991) IBM Fellow (1984-1993) Total Excellence in Electronics Manufacturing (TEEM) Award from Society of Manufacturing Engineers (1997) Educator of the Year for Excellence in Teaching, Research, and Innovation in the Field of Electronics from the India-America Cultural Association (2002) Tummala, R. R., Editor & Author, "Introduction to System-on-Package", McGraw-Hill, 2007. Tummala, R.R., P. Markondeya Raj, Venky Sundaram, Chong Yoon, Mahadevan Iyer, "SOP for multifunctional system packages", Advanced Packaging, July 2005. Tummala, R.R., "Moore's Law Meets Its Match", IEEE Spectrum magazine, June 2006. Tummala, R.R., "System-on-Package Integrates Multiple Tasks", February 2004. Tummala, R.R., Joy Laskar, "Gigabit wireless: System-on-Package technology," Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 92, 2004, pp. 376-387. Tummala, R.R., Editor and Author, "SOP: What is it and why? A new microsystem-integration technology paradigm-Moore's law for system integration of miniaturized convergent systems of the next decade", IEEE Transactions on Advanced Packaging, vol. 27, no 2, pp. 241-249, 2004. Tummala, R.R., Manos Tentzeris, Joy Laskar, Gee-Kung Chang, Suresh Sitaraman, David Keezer, Daniel Guidotti, Zhaoran Huang, Kyutae Lim, Lixi Wan, Swapan Bhattacharya, Venkatesh Sundaram, Fuhan Liu, and P. Markondeya Raj, "The SOP for miniaturized, mixed-signal computing, communication, and consumer systems of the next decade", IEEE Transactions on Advanced Packaging, vol. 27, no 2, pp. 250-267, 2004. Tummala, Venky Sundaram, Fuhan Liu, Sidharth Dalmia, Joseph Hobbs, Erdem Matoglu, Mekita Davis, George White, Joy Laskar, Madhavan Swaminthan, Nan-Marie Jokerst, Toshihisa Nonaka, "Digital, RF and Optical Integration in System-on-a-Package (SOP) for Convergent Systems", ICEP 2002, Tokyo, Japan, June 2002. Tummala R. R., Editor and Author, Fundamentals of Microsystems Packaging, McGraw Hill, June 2001. R. R. Tummala, V. K. Madisetti, System on Chip or System on Package, IEEE Design & Test of Computers, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 48-56, April 1999. Tummala, R.R., co-editor and author, Microelectronics Packaging Handbook, 3 volumes, Chapman Hall, 1996. Tummala, R. R., Multichip Packaging A Tutorial, Proceedings of IEEE, Vol. 80, pp. 1924-1941, Dec. 1992 Tummala, R.R., Ceramic and Glass-Ceramic Packaging in the 1990s, Journal of American Ceramic Society, Vol. 74, pp. 895-908, 1991. Tummala, R. R., editor & author, Microelectronics Packaging Handbook, Van Nostrand, 1989. Last revised November 30, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
