Paul G Steffes | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Paul G Steffes Retired Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: Electromagnetics Email address:email Work phone:404/894-3128 Fax:404.894.4641 Office:VL W513 Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Steffes received the S.B. and S.M. degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA in 1977, and the Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University, CA, in 1982. His doctoral research at Stanford University concentrated on microwave radio occultation experiments using the Voyager and Mariner spacecraft, with specific interest in microwave absorption in planetary atmospheres. In 1982, Dr. Steffes joined the faculty of Georgia Tech and is currently a Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering. His research focuses on microwave and millimeter-wave remote sensing and radio astronomy and has been sponsored by NASA, the NSF, the SETI Institute and by industry. He has been involved with numerous NASA missions, including Pioneer-Venus, Magellan, the Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS), the High Resolution Microwave Survey (HRMS), and Juno (Jupiter Polar Orbiter). Research interests: Microwave systems for remote sensing of planetary atmospheres and surfaces Laboratory measurements of the microwave and millimeter-wave properties of terrestrial and planetary atmospheres Radio Astronomy Satellite Communications and Navigation Systems Radio spectrum Allocation and Usage Non-invasive monitoring of glucose in the human body Distinctions: IEEE Judith A. Resnik Award for Space Engineering NASA Group Achievement Award (1993) Distinguished Reviewer, ICARUS (International Journal of Solar System Exploration) Metro Atlanta Young Engineer of the Year (Society of Professional Engineers) Chair, National Academy of Sciences, Committee on Radio Frequencies Fellow of the IEEE, "for contributions to the understanding of planetary atmospheres." Lifetime National Associate of the National Academies ECE Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award K. Devaraj and P.G. Steffes, "The Georgia Tech Millimeter-Wavelength Measurement System and Some Applications to the Study of Planetary Atmospheres" Radio Science, 2011. (doi:10.1029/2010RS004433) B.M. Karpowicz and P.G. Steffes, "In Search of Water Vapor on Jupiter: Laboratory Measurements of the Microwave Properties of Water Vapor under Simulated Jovian Conditions," Icarus, vol. 212, pp. 210-223, March 2011. K. Devaraj, P.G. Steffes, and B.M. Karpowicz, "Reconciling the Centimeter and Millimeter-Wavelength Ammonia Absorption Spectra under Jovian Conditions: Extensive Millimeter-Wavelength Measurements and a Consistent Model," Icarus, vol. 212, pp. 224-235, March 2011. W.C. Barott, M.A. Ingram, and P.G. Steffes, "Scan Loss Pattern Synthesis for Single- and Multi-satellite Tracking LEO Ground Stations That Use Adaptive Arrays," IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. 46, pp. 1140-1152, July 2010. T. R. Hanley and P.G. Steffes, "A High-Sensitivity Laboratory System for Measuring the Microwave Properties of Gases under Simulated Conditions for Planetary Atmospheres," Radio Science, vol 42, no. RS6010, pp.1-12, November-December 2007. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
