Ali Adibi | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Ali Adibi Job title:Professor; Joseph M. Pettit Professor in Electronics Technical Interest Groups: Nanotechnology, Bioengineering, Optics and Photonics, Electromagnetics Email address:email Work phone:404/385-2738 Fax:404.894.4641 Office:BH 105 Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Ali Adibi is the director for the Center for Advanced Processing-tools for Electromagnetic/acoustics Xtals (APEX) at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He received his B.S.E.E. from Shiraz University (Iran) in 1990, and received his M.S.E.E. and Ph.D. degrees from the Georgia Institute of Technology (1994) and the California Institute of Technology (2000), respectively. His Ph.D. research resulted in a breakthrough in persistent holographic storage in photorefractive crystals. Dr. Adibi worked as a postdoctoral scholar at the California Institute of Technology from 1999 to 2000. In 2000, he joined the faculty of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he is now an associate professor. Dr. Adibi has a wide range of research interests in both theoretical and experimental aspects of photonic devices and materials. His research has resulted in more than 50 journal and more than 100 conference publications, as well as several invention disclosures and patents. Dr. Adibi has received several prestigious awards, including the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) from the White House, CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF), and Packard Fellowship from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation. Dr. Adibi has been the conference chair for several conferences, including the "Photonic Crystal Materials and Devices" conference in the Photonics West Meeting. He has served as a technical committee member for several conferences organized by IEEE, Optical Society of America (OSA), and The International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE). He is a senior member of IEEE and a member of Sigma Xi, OSA, SPIE, and ASM. He is also the chair of the IEEE LEOS Atlanta Chapter. Research interests: Design, characterization, and applications of photonic crystals for chip-scale WDM and biosensors Photonic crystal lasers and light emitters Ultra-compact spectrometers for bio and environmental sensing Silicon photonics Slow light structures Phononic crystals for sensing and wireless communications Data storage and 3D optical pattern recognition using volume holograms Ultra-dense and ultra-fast optical interconnects In vivo biomedical imaging Distinctions: Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) from the White House, July 2005. Outstanding Junior Faculty Member Award from School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, April 2004. Class of 1940 Howard Ector Outstanding Teacher Award from Georgia Institute of Technology, April 2003. CAREER Award from National Science Foundation, February 2003. Optoelectronics Young Investigator Award from SPIE (The International Society for Optical Engineering), January 2003. NASA Space Act Award for creative development of non-volatile holographic storage in photorefractive crystals from NASA, October 2002. David & Lucile Packard Fellowship for Science and Engineering from Packard Foundation, October 2002. Richard M. Bass Outstanding Teacher Award from School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, April 2002. SCEEE (Southeastern Center for Electrical Engineering Education) Young Faculty Development Award, July 2001. Charles H. Wilts Prize for research in electrical engineering leading to a doctorate (best thesis in Electrical Engineering), California Institute of Technology, June 2000. Ali Adibi, R.K. Lee, A. Scherer, Y. Xu, A. Yariv: "Properties of the slab modes in photonic crystal optical Waveguides," Journal of Lightwave Technology, November, 2000. Ali Adibi, Y. Xu, R. K. Lee, A. Yariv, A. Scherer, "Properties of the slab modes in photonic crystal optical waveguides", Journal of Lightwave Technology, November 2000. Ali Adibi, K. Buse, D. Psaltis: "Sensitivity improvement in two-center holographic recording," Optic Letters, vol. 25, pp. 539-541, 2000. Ali Adibi, K. Buse, D. Psaltis, "Sensitivity improvement in two-center holographic recording", Optics Letters, vol. 25, pp. 539-541, 2000. Ali Adibi, R.K. Lee, A. Scherer, Y. Xu, A. Yariv: "Design of photonic crystal optical waveguides with single-mode propagation in the bandgap," Electronics Letters, vol. 36, pp. 1376-1378, 2000. Ali Adibi, R. K. Lee, Y. Xu, A. Yariv, A. Scherer, "Design of photonic crystal optical waveguides with single-mode propagation in the bandgap", Electronics Letters, vol. 36, pp. 1376-1378, 2000. Ali Adibi, J. Mumbru, D. Psaltis, K. Wagner: "Secondary grating formaton by read-out at Bragg-null incidence," Applied Optics, vol. 38, pp. 4291-4295, 1999. Ali Adibi, J. Mumbru, K. Wagner, D. Psaltis, "Secondary grating formation by read-out at Bragg-null incidence", Applied Optics, vol. 38, pp. 4291-4295, 1999. Ali Adibi, K. Buse, D. Psaltis: "Effect of annealing on holographic recording in doubly-doped LiNbO3 crystals," Applied Physics Letters, vol. 74, pp. 3767-3769, 1999. Ali Adibi, K. Buse, D. Psaltis, "Effect of annealing on holographic recording in doubly-doped LiNbO3 crystals", Applied Physics Letters, vol. 74, pp. 3767-3769, 1999. A. Adibi, K. Buse, D. Psaltis: "Non-volatile holographic recording in doubly-doped lithium niobate," Nature, vol. 393, pp. 665-668, 1998. K. Buse, A. Adibi, D. Psaltis, "Non-volatile holographic recording in doubly-doped lithium niobate", Nature, vol. 393, pp. 665-668, 1998. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
