Chaouki Tanios Abdallah | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Chaouki Tanios Abdallah Job title:Professor; Exec VP-Research at Georgia Tech Technical Interest Groups: Systems and Controls Email address:email Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Chaouki T. Abdallah is the Executive Vice President for Research (EVPR) at Georgia Tech and a professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. The EVPR directs Georgia Techs research program. As a direct report to the President and a member of the Presidents Cabinet, the EVPR serves as chief research officer for the Institute. This position provides overall leadership for the research, economic development, and related support units within the Institute. Dr. Abdallah began his college career at the Facult dingnierie (ESIB) of the Universit Saint-Joseph, then obtained his Bachelors of Engineering (BE) degree from Youngstown State University in 1981, and his M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1982 and 1988, respectively. He joined the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) department at the University of New Mexico (UNM), where he served as professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering. Between 2005 and 2011, he was the ECE department chair and became the Provost and Executive Vice President of Academic Affairs of UNM between July 2011 and December 2016. On January 2017, he became acting President, then interim President in June 2017, and finally the 22nd President, a position he held until February 2018 when he returned to his position as Provost. On September 1, 2018 he joined Georgia Tech as its EVPR. Dr. Abdallah was the first recipient of ECEs Lawton-Ellis Award for combined excellence in teaching, research, and student/community involvement. He also received the School of Engineering senior research excellence award in 2004, and was the ECE Gardner-Zemke Professor between 2002 and 2005. He received the 2017 UNM Staff Hero award for his advocacy for staff during difficult financial times and for his support of Staff Council. Dr. Abdallah has published eight books (three as co-editor and five as co-author) and more than 300 peer-reviewed papers, and he generated more than $9 million in external funding. As Provost, he assembled a team to improve student success focusing on underprepared and underrepresented students. Within seven years, under his leadership, UNM increased the first-year retention rates by 8%, the four-year graduation rate by 125%, the five-year graduation rate by 8%, and the six-year graduation rate by 15%, while closing the retention achievement gap and narrowing the graduation achievement gap. He also shepherded the design and implementation of an Honors College that has since increased the number of high-achieving students attending UNM by more than 20%. He also led the development and implementation of a long-range academic plan and initiatives in 2011. Dr. Abdallah conducts research and teaches courses in the general area of systems theory with focus on control, communications, and computing systems. His research has been funded by NSF, AFOSR, NRL, National Laboratories, and by various companies. He served as the general chair of the 2008 CDC, the premier IEEE conference in Decision & Control, which was held in Cancun, Mexico. Dr. Abdallah is a senior member of IEEE and a recipient of the IEEE Millennium Medal. He is fluent in English, French, and Arabic. Research interests: Systems Theory Complex Networks Higher Education Systems Distinctions: Recipient 2017 Spirit of New Mexico award. The awards recognize people in the community who have given of their own time and efforts to make a difference. From the award citation: "Despite the challenges, Abdallah has earned the support of faculty, students, the business community and lawmakers." Recipient of the UNM 2017 Staff Hero Award. 2004 Winner, Senior Faculty Research Excellence Award, UNM School of Engineering. Faculty Affiliate (2003), Los Alamos National Laboratories, Los Alamos, New Mexico. Gradner-Zemke Research Professor (20022005), ECE Department, UNM. Recipient (2000), IEEE Millennium Medal, The Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, IEEE. First Recipient (2000), Lawton-Ellis award for combined teaching, research, service excellence, ECE Department, UNM. C.T. Abdallah, G.L. Heileman, & T. Babbitt, published online in The Evolllution, Change?: How to Drive Continuous Improvement on a University Campus, 2018. J.M. Luna, C.T. Abdallah, & G.L. Heileman, Probabilistic Optimization of Resource Distribution and Encryption for Data Storage in the Cloud, IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, No. 1, p. 1, January 2016. G.L. Heileman, T.H. Babbitt, & C.T. Abdallah, Visualizing Student Flows: Busting Myths About Student Movement and Success, Change Magazine, pp. 30-39, May/June 2015. M.S. Hayajneh & C.T. Abdallah, Game Theoretic Distributed Power Control Algorithms for Uplink Wireless Data in Flat Fading Channels, International Journal of Computers Communications & Control, Vol. 10, Issue 4, pp. 520-538, 2015. J. Khoury and C.T. Abdallah, Internet Naming and Discovery Architecture and Economics, 2013, Springer-Verlag. P. Comesana, F.P. Gonzalez, and C.T. Abdallah, Witsenhausens Counterexample and Its Links with Multimedia Security Problems, In Digital Forensics and Watermarking, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Springer-Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Editor: Y.Q. Shi, H-J. Kim, and F. Prez-Gonzlez, pp. 479-493, 2012. H.G. Tanner, J. Fu, C. Rawal, J.L. Piovesan, and C.T. Abdallah, Finite Abstractions for Hybrid Systems with Stable Continuous Dynamics, Discrete Event Dynamic Systems, Volume 22, Number 1, 83-99, 2012. C.T. Abdallah, Mathematical Controllability of Genomic Networks, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Commentary Paper, Vol. 108, No. 42, pp. 17243-17244, October 2011. F. Lewis, D. Dawson, and C.T. Abdallah, Robot Manipulator Control: Theory and Practice, Marcel Dekker Publishing Company, New York, NY, 2003. P. Dorato, C.T. Abdallah, and V. Cerone, Linear Quadratic Control: An Introduction, Second Printing with Corrections, Krieger Publishing Company, Malabar, FL, 2000. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
