William D Hunt | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:William D Hunt Job title:Professor Technical Interest Groups: Electromagnetics, Bioengineering, Electronic Design and Applications, Nanotechnology, Optics and Photonics Email address:email Work phone:404/894-2945 Fax:404.894.4700 Office:MiRC 221 Microelectronic Acoustics Group Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Hunt grew up in the literary haven of Columbus, Mississippi, the boyhood home of Tennessee Williams, and received his B.S.E.E. from the University of Alabama in 1976. He worked for Harris Corporation for two years in the areas of acousto-optics and surface acoustic wave (SAW). He then entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he earned his S.M.E.E. in 1980 and conducted research in the field of auditory physiology. After four years with Bolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc. he entered the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana where he received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering in 1987. His research there was on acoustic charge transport (ACT) devices and the SAW properties of Gallium Arsenide. Dr. Hunt joined the faculty of the Georgia Institute of Technology in the fall of 1987 as one of the original members of the Pettit Microsystems Research Center. There he founded the Microelectronic Acoustics Group which focuses on the development of ultrasonic devices that can be integrated with Microsystems. Among these have been, ACT devices, micromachined polyvinylidene fluoride-trifluoroethylene (PVDF)-based transducers for intravascular ultrasound, acousto-optic devices for tunable lasers as well as SAW and bulk acoustic wave (BAW) devices for wireless and chemical sensor applications. Research interests: Thin film piezoelectric materials SAW and BAW devices for wireless applications Application of microelectronic acoustics to chemical sensing and biological research Device physics and fabrication of microelectronic acoustic devices Distinctions: Rhodes Scholar Finalist National Science Foundation Presidential Young Investigator DuPont Young Faculty Award University of Alabama Distinguished Engineering Fellow, 1994 Past Member of Administrative Committee of IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control Society Newsletter Editor, IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control Society W.D. Hunt, J. A. Kosinski, and R. Pastore, "Ballato Electronic Circuit Models for Programmable SAW Filters," Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium. W.D. Hunt, "Self-Collimating Surface Acoustic Waves on Multilayer Structures," Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium. J.H. Irby and W.D. Hunt, "Calculation of Dn2 and k for an acoustically-induced distributed Bragg reflector (ADBR)," IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 213-224, February 1998. K.F. Brennan, William D. Hunt: "Integrated Surface Acoustic Wave-surface Plasmon Resonance Sensors," ROI#1926, 1997. T.P. Cameron, William D. Hunt: "Slanted Reflection Gratings on Gallium Arsenide," Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium, pp. 11-16, 1997. William D. Hunt, M.E. Woodberry: "Investigation of Accelerated Aging Characteristics of a SAW Filter," Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium, pp. 55-60, 1997. B.L. Olutade and W.D. Hunt, "Sensitivity analysis of a thin film bulk acoustic resonator ladder filter," 1997 Frequency Control Symposium, pp. 737-42, Orlando, Florida, May 1997. William D. Hunt, K.L. Jones: "A Novel for Enhanced Electroporation and Drug Delivery Using Vacuum Microelectronics," ROI#1960, January, 1997. R.D. Briggs, William D. Hunt, M.Z. Sleva: "A Micromachined Polyvinylidene Fluoride-Trifluoroethylene Transducer for Pulse-Echo Ultrasound Applications," IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control, vol. 43, no. 2, pp. 257-262, 1996. R.D. Briggs, D.M. Connuck, William D. Hunt, M.Z. Sleva: "Wideband IV Acoustic Microscope," U.S. patent no. 5,488,954, no. 5, 1996. Yield Modeling of Acoustic Charge Transport Transversal Filters," IEEE Trans. Semicond. Manuf, W.D. Hunt, James S. Kenney, G.S. May: "8," 2, 207, vol. 13, no. May, p. 1995. E. Danicki, William D. Hunt: "On Spurious Bulk Wave Excitation in SAW Grating Reflectors on GaAs (001) (110)," Archives of Acoustics, vol. 20, no. 2, pp. 171-175, 1995. T.P. Cameron, William D. Hunt: "SAW Amplifiers on Multilayer GaAs Substrates," presented the IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium, Seattle, WA, 1995. William D. Hunt, M. Woodberry: "Temperature Characteristics of LST-Quartz Resonators," IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium, Seattle, WA, 1995. William D. Hunt, H. Irby: "GHz-Range SAW Devices on GaAs and InP," IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium, Seattle, WA, 1995. W.D. Hunt, T. Cameron, J.C.B. Saw, Y. Kim and M. Suthers, "Mode profiles in waveguide-coupled resonators," Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 74, no. 8, pp. 4886-4893, October 1993. Y. Kim and W.D. Hunt, "Acoustic fields and velocities for surface acoustic wave propagation in multilayered structures: An extension of the Laguerre polynomial approach," Journal of Applied Physics, vol. 68, no. 10, pp. 493-4997, November 1990. Last revised August 28, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
