Daniel Molzahn | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Daniel Molzahn Job title:Assistant Professor Technical Interest Groups: Electrical Energy Email address:email Work phone:404/894-1876 Office:VL E176 http://molzahn.github.io/ Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Daniel Molzahn joined the faculty of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Georgia Tech in Spring 2019. Prior to this position, Dr. Molzahn was a computational engineer at Argonne National Laboratory in the Center for Energy, Environmental, and Economic Systems Analysis (CEEESA), where he currently holds an affiliate position. He was a Dow Postdoctoral Fellow in Sustainability in the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department at the University of Michigan. He received the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering and the Masters of Public Affairs degree from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he was a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellow. In his spare time, Dr. Molzahn enjoys hiking, waterskiing, and climbing. Also, as a shareholder of the world's greatest sporting franchise, he keeps an eye on his investment by watching and attending football games of the 13-time-champion Green Bay Packers football team. Research interests: Developing optimization and control algorithms in order to improve the environmental sustainability, economic efficiency, and reliability of electric power systems Addressing non-linearities resulting from the power flow equations Developing mathematically rigorous techniques for incorporating uncertainties related to renewable generation and varying load demands Distinctions:Fellowships: Dow Postdoctoral Fellowship in Sustainability (University of Michigan) National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (University of WisconsinMadison) Positions held in professional organizations: Vice-chair of the technical program committee for the 21st Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC 2020) Guest associate editor for a special issue on distributed control and optimization in IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid Awards "High Quality Paper" Award (IEEE PowerTech Manchester 2017) "Best Presentation in Session" Award (American Control Conference 2016) 2014 Harold A. Peterson Best Dissertation Award, Second Place (University of WisconsinMadison) Grainger Power Engineering Award (2010, 2008) D.K. Molzahn and I.A. Hiskens, "A Survey of Relaxations and Approximations of the Power Flow Equations," to appear in Foundations and Trends in Electric Energy Systems, 2019. D.K. Molzahn, "Identifying and Characterizing Non-Convexities in Feasible Spaces of Optimal Power Flow Problems," IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, vol. 65, no. 5, pp. 672-676, May 2018. C. Josz and D.K. Molzahn, "Lasserre Hierarchy for Large Scale Polynomial Optimization in Real and Complex Variables," SIAM Journal on Optimization, vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 1017-1048, 2018. D.K. Molzahn and L.A. Roald, "Towards an AC Optimal Power Flow Algorithm with Robust Feasibility Guarantees," 20th Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC), June 11-15, 2018. S. Misra, D.K. Molzahn, and K. Dvijotham, "Optimal Adaptive Linearizations of the AC Power Flow Equations," 20th Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC), June 11-15, 2018. D.K. Molzahn, F. Dorfler, H. Sandberg, S.H. Low, S. Chakrabarti, R. Baldick, and J. Lavaei, "A Survey of Distributed Optimization and Control Algorithms for Electric Power Systems," IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, Special Issue on Distributed Control and Efficient Optimization Methods for Smart Grid, vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 2941-2962, November 2017. D.K. Molzahn, "Computing the Feasible Spaces of Optimal Power Flow Problems," IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 4752-4763, November 2017. D.K. Molzahn and I.A. Hiskens, "Sparsity-Exploiting Moment-Based Relaxations of the Optimal Power Flow Problem," IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 3168-3180, November 2015. P. Panciatici, M.C. Campi, S. Garatti, S.H. Low, D.K. Molzahn, A.X. Sun, and L. Wehenkel, "Advanced Optimization Methods for Power Systems," 18th Power Systems Computation Conference (PSCC), August 18-22, 2014. D.K. Molzahn, J.T. Holzer, B.C. Lesieutre, and C.L. DeMarco, "Implementation of a Large-Scale Optimal Power Flow Solver Based on Semidefinite Programming," IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 3987-3998, November 2013. D.K. Molzahn, B.C. Lesieutre, and C.L. DeMarco, "A Sufficient Condition for Power Flow Insolvability with Applications to Voltage Stability Margins," IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 2592-2601, August 2013. B.C. Lesieutre, D.K. Molzahn, A.R. Borden, and C.L. DeMarco, "Examining the Limits of the Application of Semidefinite Programming to Power Flow Problems," 49th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing (Allerton), pp. 1492-1499, September 28-30, 2011. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
