Faculty Companies | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeResearch Faculty Companies ECE has a long and successful history of start-up company activity through theAdvanced Technology Development Center (ATDC), a nationally recognized science and technology incubator that helps Georgia entrepreneurs launch and build successful businesses.VentureLab, a one-stop center for technology commercialization, assists faculty in evaluating the commercial value of invention disclosures and in determining whether to license the technology to industry or to begin a start-up company. E-System Design E-System Design develops CAD tools for achieving signal and power integrity in integrated 3D micro and nano-systems. The line of products include Sphinx DC for DC analysis of packages and printed circuit boards; Sphinx for Signoff for High Frequency Analysis; and most recently, Sphinx 3D Path Finder for early electrical analysis of IC Stacks, interposers, and packages. Madhavan Swaminathan, Founder and CTO Fortiphyd Logic Fortiphyd Logics Industrial Control System (ICS) security solutions use patent-pending technology based on peer-reviewed academic research to detect nation-state level adversaries and provide real-time network and host visibility. Raheem A. Beyah, Co-Founder and Company Chair ProsumerGrid ProsumerGrid is an award-winning startup company with the vision to optimize the worlds energy resources in order to achieve the objectives of ultra-reliability, economic optimization, and sustainability. Our mission is to provide our clients with innovative tools for managing the emerging power grid. Santiago C. Grijalva, Company Chair Zyrobotics Zyrobotics, LLC, an award-wining creator of educational technologies for children, was founded in 2013 as an inclusive technology company. As a GT VentureLab spinoff company, Zyrobotics addresses the diverse needs of children with differing abilities by creating personalized technologies to make a difference in the lives of children in the age range of 3 to 7 years old. Ayanna Howard, Founder and CTO ATDC Graduate Companies An ATDC company is designated as a "graduate" when it has reached over $1 million of growing revenue, has become a value acquisition, has raised significant venture funding, or has received clearance to begin trials with the Food and Drug Administration. Ten companies started by ECE faculty members have reached graduate status. Asankya (acquired by EMC) Asankya offered a revolutionary approach to optimizing application performance on wide-area networks (WAN). Using a breakthrough technique for transporting packets over multiple network paths, it improved application performance over the Internet or in combination with private networks. The products were built upon patented technology developed at Georgia Tech. Co-Founder and CTO:Raghupathy Sivakumar ASPI Digital (acquired by Polycom, 2001) ASPI Digital was established in 1981 and produced hardware and software tools for DSP algorithm development and multimedia on high-speed microprocessors. Co-Founders:Thomas P. Barnwell,Russell M. Mersereau, and Ronald W. Schafer EGT (acquired by ARRIS) EGT manufactured digital video signal processing equipment for television distribution over cable, satellite, and IP networks. Co-Founder and Chief Science Officer:Nikil Jayant GTronix (acquired by National Semiconductor/Texas Instruments) GTronix developed analog integrated circuits for ultra-low power, small size, and cost-effective implementations in portable consumer electronics. Co-Founder, Chief Science Officer, and Board Member:Jennifer O. Hasler Innovolt Innovolt products provide complete, dependable, and reliable electrical protection against current and voltage surges. Chair, CTO, and Co-Founder:Deepak Divan Lancope (acquired by Cisco) Lancope Inc. provides next-generation network integrity solutions that deliver behavior-based threat defense, policy enforcement, and insightful network intelligence. Founder:John A. Copeland Nexidia Nexidia produces scalable enterprise speech intelligence software for audio mining and speech analytics. Co-Founder and Board Member:Mark A. Clements Qualtr (acquired by Panasonic) Qualtr is a fabless semiconductor company developing integrated all-axis motion sensors for consumer electronics. Farrokh Ayazi, Co-Founder and CTO StarMobile, Inc. (acquired by PowWow Mobile) StarMobile is a disruptive, cloud-based solution that delivers enterprise mobility at a fraction of the cost and time of any other approach. Global 2000 companies use StarMobile to dynamically transform any packaged on-premise or cloud-based application, or custom-built system, into a mobile application. Raghupathy Sivakumar, Founder and CTO Suniva Suniva is focused on the development, manufacturing, and delivery of low-cost, high-efficiency silicon solar cells for clean power generation. Founder and CTO:Ajeet Rohatgi Last revised September 9, 2019 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
