Douglas B Williams | School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECEWelcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board AcademicsCourses and MajorsUndergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance AdmissionsUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions OutreachWhy Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources ResearchTechnical Interest GroupsBioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & CalendarNews and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & StaffDirectory Faculty/Staff Resources Safety Policy Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT HomeHomeFaculty & StaffDirectory Photo file: Full name:Douglas B Williams Job title:Professor; Associate Dean for Administration and Finance Technical Interest Groups: Telecommunications, Digital Signal Processing Email address:email Work phone:404/894-9832 Overview Distinctions & Awards Publications & Patents Dr. Williams joined the ECE faculty in 1989, where he is affiliated with the Center for Signal and Image Processing. He most recently served as the associate chair for ECE Undergraduate Affairs from 2003-2011 and as interim school chair from July 2011-August 2012. He received the BSEE, MS, and PhD degrees in electrical and computer engineering from Rice University in 1984, 1987, and 1989, respectively. Dr. Williams' research interests involve the application of statistical signal processing methods to communications, radar signal processing, and the study of nonlinear dynamics. He is a member of the IEEE Signal Processing Society's Board of Governors, Signal Processing Theory and Methods Technical Committee, and Signal Processing Education Technical Committee. Dr. Williams is currently Special Sections Area Editor for the IEEE Signal Processing Magazine and was co-editor of The Digital Signal Processing Handbook (CRC Press and IEEE Press, 1998). He is a member of the Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Phi Beta Kappa honor societies. Research interests: Statistical signal processing Signal processing techniques for communications Adaptive radar signal processing Applications of chaos and nonlinear dynamics to communications Distinctions: Member of Phi Beta Kappa Member of Tau Beta Pi Member of Eta Kappa Nu 2005 Georgia Tech's Women in Engineering "Excellence Faculty Mentoring Award" 1990 GE Young Faculty Award 1984 NCR Outstanding Senior Electrical Engineering Student E.J. Holder, Y. Seliktar, Douglas B. Williams: "Adaptive Monopulse Processing in the Presence of TSI and Mainbeam Jamming," Proceedings of the Adaptive Sensor Array Processing Workshop, Lexington, MA, 1998. S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "On Characteristic Function Based Stable Distribution Parameter Estimation Techniques," in A Practical Guide to Heavy Tails: Statistical Techniques for Analyzing Heavy Tailed Distributions, (R. Adler, R. Feldman, and M.S. Taqqu, eds.), Boston, MA: Birkhauser, 1998. The Handbook of Digital Signal Processing, (V.K. Madisetti and D.B. Williams, Eds.), Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, Inc. and IEEE Press, 1998. S.M. Kogon and D.B. Williams, "On Characteristic Function Based Stable Distribution Parameter Estimation Techniques," in A Practical Guide to Heavy Tails: Statistical Techniques and Applications, (R.J. Adler, R.E. Feldman, and M.S. Taqqu, Eds.), Boston, MA: Birkhauser, 1998. Douglas B. Williams: "Communications Systems" and "Chaotic Signals and Communication Channels," Dynamics Seminar, Center for Dynamical Systems and Nonlinear Studies, School of Mathematics, Georgia Tech, Atlanta, GA, 1998. S.M. Kogon, D.B. Williams, and E.J. Holder, "Exploiting coherent multipath for mainbeam jammer suppression," IEE Proc.-Radar, Sonar, and Navigation, Special Issue on Spectral Analysis Applications in Radar, vol. 145, no. 5, pp. 303-308, October 1998. E.J. Holder, S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "Beamspace Mitigation of Terrain Scattered Interference in Airborne Radar Systems," IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. 34, no. 3, 1998. J.B. Schodorf and D.B. Williams, "Array processing techniques for multiuser detection," IEEE Trans. on Communications, vol. 45, no. 11, pp. 1375-1378, November 1997. E.J. Holder, S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "Mainbeam Jammer Suppression Using Jammer Multipath Returns," invited paper, Proceedings of the Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers, Pacific Grove, CA, 1997. C. Lee and D.B. Williams, "Generalized iterative methods for enhancing contaminated chaotic signals," IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems - 1: Fundamental Theory and Applications, vol. 44, no. 6, pp. 501-512, June 1997. J.B. Schodorf, Douglas B. Williams: "Array Processing Techniques for Multiuser Detection," IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 45, no. 11, pp. 1375-1378, 1997. J.B. Schodorf and D.B. Williams, "A constrained optimization approach to multiuser detection," IEEE Trans. on Signal Processing, Special Issue on Signal Processing for Advanced Communications, vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 258-262, January 1997. Douglas B. Williams: "Detection: Determining the Number of Sources," in The Handbook of Digital Signal Processing, (editors with V.K. Madisetti), Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, Inc. and the IEEE Press, January, 1997. J.B. Schodorf, Douglas B. Williams: "A Constrained Adaptive Diversity Combiner for Interference Suppression in CDMA Systems," Proceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. 5, pp. 2666-2669, 1996. E.J. Holder, S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "Hot Clutter Cancellation with Orthogonal Beamspace Transforms," Proceedings of the Adaptive Sensor Array Processing Workshop, Lexington, MA, 1996. J.H. McClellan, Y. Seliktar, Douglas B. Williams: "(MT)2: MountainTop MATLAB Toolbox," Proceedings of the Adaptive Sensor Array Processing Workshop, Lexington, MA, 1996. J.B. Schodorf, Douglas B. Williams: "Partially Adaptive Multiuser Detection," Proceedings of the IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, Atlanta, GA, 1996. E.J. Holder, S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "Beamspace Techniques for Hot Clutter Cancellation," Proceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. 2, pp. 1177-1180, 1996. J.H. McClellan, Y. Seliktar, Douglas B. Williams: "Evaluation of Partially Adaptive STAP Algorithms on the Mountain Top Data Set," Proceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, vol. 2, pp. 1169-1172, 1996. D.F. Drake, Douglas B. Williams: "The Consequences of Chaos as Noise," Proceedings of the 29th Annual Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers, Pacific Grove, CA, 1995. S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "On the Characterization of Impulsive Noise with Alpha-Stable Distributions Using Fourier Techniques," Proceedings of the 29th Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers, Pacific Grove, CA, 1995. J.B. Schodorf, Douglas B. Williams: "A Blind Adaptive Interference Cancellation Scheme for CDMA Systems," Proceedings of the 29th Annual Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers, Pacific Grove, CA, 1995. C. Lee, J. Lee, Douglas B. Williams: "A Secure Communication Scheme Using Chaotic Signals," Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computer Communications, vol. 1, pp. 421-425, 1995. J.S. Goldstein, E.J. Holder, S.M. Kogon, Douglas B. Williams: "Partially Adaptive Radar Signal Processing: The Cross Spectral Approach," Proceedings of the 29th Annual Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems, and Computers, Pacific Grove, CA, 1995. C. Lee, J. Lee, Douglas B. Williams: "Secure Communication Using Chaos," Proceedings of Globecom, vol. 2, pp. 1183-1187, 1995. J.S. Goldstein, E.J. Holder, Douglas B. Williams: "A Frequency Domain Realization of an Optimal Partially Adaptive Sensor Array," MILCOM Proceedings, 1995. D.F. Drake, Douglas B. Williams: "Pseudo-Chaos for Direct-Sequence Spread-Spectrum Communication," Proceedings of SPIE, Photonics East, Philadelphia, PA, 1995. Last revised August 31, 2020 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of TechnologyNorth Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency InformationLegal & Privacy InformationHuman Trafficking NoticeTitle IX/Sexual MisconductEU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy NoticeAccessibilityAccountabilityAccreditationEmployment 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook LinkedIn Twitter YouTube 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology
