Angela Douglas | Department of Entomology Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: Entomology Cornell Department of Entomology Back to top menu AboutContact Us FacilitiesComstock Room Reservations Cornell University Insect Collection GivingPollinator Health Research Fund Cornell University Insect Collection Fund Lost Ladybug Project Fund Current Donors Graduate StudiesWhy study at Cornell? Cornell Graduate Field System Funding for graduate studies Research fociEcology, Evolution, Systematics, and Behavior Managed Systems Entomology Physiology, Molecular Biology, Genetics and Genomics Grad Field Faculty Current Students Resources for Students Contact Northeast Regional Center for Excellence in Vector Borne DiseasesCollaborative TeamCo-Investigators Program Information for MS in Entomology Vector Biology Program Application Process Apply! Undergraduate StudiesApplication Process Arranging a Visit Contacts Courses and RequirementsMajor in Entomology Minor in Entomology Biological Sciences Concentration in Insect Biology Faculty Advising Learning Goals and Objectives Opportunities Internship Opportunities Research Honors Program Summer Scholars Program Undergraduate Club Undergraduate Students PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni SpotlightAlumni Submission Form Extension & Public OutreachEngaged Entomology Biological Control Extension & Outreach Assistants Field Crops Entomology Floriculture and Greenhouse Horticulture Entomology Fruit EntomologyBerry Crops Grapes Home Fruit Plantings Tree Fruit Household Pests Insect Diagnostic Lab Integrated Pest Management Program (IPM) Pollinator Network Medical Entomology NYS 4-H Entomology Program Naturalist Outreach Pesticide Application Technology Pesticide Management Education Program (PMEP) Soil and Turf Entomology Spider Outreach Vegetable Entomology Veterinary Entomology Wild PollinatorsGround nesting bees in your backyard! News & EventsNewsNews Archive Events Graduation 2020M.S and Ph.D Undergraduate Insectapalooza Jugatae Seminar Series Patton LectureChristina M. Grozinger Mark Brown Carl Thrummel Bryony Bonning David OBrochta Awards and Honors2018 - 2019 2017 - 2018 2016 - 2017 2015 - 2016 2014 - 2015 2013 - 2014 2012 - 2013 2011 - 2012 2010 - 2009 Available Positions Back to top HomePeopleAngela Douglas Angela Douglas Professor 5124 Comstock Hall (607) 255-8539 Email: aes326@cornell.edu Research FocusI am interested in how animals, especially insects, function. The two foci of my research are (1) interactions between insects and beneficial microorganisms, and (2) integrative nutritional physiology, from the molecular function to whole animal function. The three current research foci in the laboratory are: (1) Drosophila-gut microbe interactions. We are investigating the microbial communities that colonize the Drosophila gut, using molecular and microbiological methods, and dissecting the host and microbial genes that define the impact of the microorganisms on host phenotype, especially nutritional function. Our purpose is to use this association, as a general model system for animal-gut microbe interactions. (2) The obligate intracellular symbioses in insects, especially plant sap-feeding groups, including aphids and whiteflies. We are seeking to identify key genes mediating the interactions between insect and bacteria and to establish their mode of action, by mining genomes for candidate genes, metabolic reconstruction, transcriptome and proteome analysis, and analysis of metabolite titers and metabolite exchange. We are motivated by the fundamental problem of how the bacteria have become integrated into the insect system, and by the potential of key symbiosis genes as targets for insect pest management. (3) Sugar relations of phloem-feeding insects. Phloem sugars are both the dominant carbon source and osmotic challenge for these insects. Our research includes the identification of gene targets and interference with the function of insect sugar-processing and other osmoregulation genes by RNAi, as a novel control strategy for phloem-feeding insect pests.Outreach and Extension FocusI seek to engage with the general public and non-specialists in topical biological issues, especially as they relate to my expertise. I have provided lectures and contributed to discussion panels on topics ranging from 'cooperation in nature' to beneficial microorganisms and aphids as pests. I also contribute to courses for in-service training of secondary school teachers.Teaching FocusIn 2018, I contributed the following teaching: ARTH 4151 Topics in Media Arts: two lecture and one laboratory class Graduate course BIOMG7810: Problems in Genetics and Development: one session Insect Physiology ENTOM4830: 20 lectures and linked labs/projects Orientation Lectures in Molecular Biology and Genetics BIOMG1380, one lectureIn 2016, I contributed to the design of ARTH 4151 Topics in Media Arts, together with one lecture and lab visit for students. I also contributed one session in the graduate course BIOMG7810: Problems in Genetics and Development at Cornell University; a professional development class at the University of Cambridge, UK; and genomics workshops for undergraduate students at University of Mansfield, PA and Corning Community College, NYIn 2015, I contributed 20 lectures and linked labs/projects to Insect Physiology: (4830), one session in Graduate course ENTOM7670: Professional Development in Entomology, and one session in Graduate course BIOMG7810: Problems in Genetics and Development.In 2014, I contributed 3 lectures in Chemical Ecology (3690), and one session in Graduate course BIOMG7810: Problems in Genetics and DevelopmentIn 2013, I contributed 20 lectures and linked labs/projects to the course Insect Physiology (ENTOM 4830), and I contributed to the BIOMG7810 Problems in Genetics and Development.Additional LinksDepartment website Douglas Lab Awards and HonorsVisiting Professor (2013) Northwest A and F University, ChinaKarl August Mobius Fellowship (2018) University of Kiel2015 Entomological Society of America Recognition award in Insect Physiology, Biochemistry and Toxicology (2015) Entomological Society of AmericaCollege of Agriculture and Life Sciences Research and Extension Award for Outstanding Accomplishments in Research (2014) Cornell UniversitySir Frederick McMaster Fellowship (2013) CSIRO, AustraliaSelected PublicationsJournal PublicationsAdair, K. L., Wilson, M., Bost, A., & Douglas, A. (2018). Microbial community assembly in wild populations of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. The ISME Journal: Multidisciplinary Journal of Microbial Ecology. in press.Inamine, H., Ellner, S. P., Newell, P. D., Luo, Y., Buchon``, N., & Douglas, A. (2018). Spatio-temporally heterogeneous population dynamics of gut bacteria inferred from fecal time-series data. mBio. 9:e01453-17.Douglas, A. (2017). Big role for a tiny genome. Cell. 171:1472-1473.Arora, A., & Douglas, A. (2017). Hype or opportunity? Using microbial symbionts in novel strategies for insect pest control. Journal of Insect Physiology. 103:10-17.Douglas, A. (2017). Strategies for Enhanced Crop Resistance to Insect Pests. Annual Review of Plant Biology. 69:24.Douglas, A. (2017). The B vitamin nutrition of insects: the contributions of diet, microbiome and horizontally-acquired genes. Current Opinion in Insect Science. 23:65-69.Ankrah, N., Luan, J., & Douglas, A. (2017). Cooperative metabolism in a three-partner insect-bacterial symbiosis revealed by metabolic modeling. Journal of Bacteriology. 199:e00872-16.Martinson, V., Douglas, A., & Jaenike, J. (2017). Community structure of the gut microbiota in sympatric species of wild Drosophila. Ecology Letters. 20:629-639.Wong, C. N., Luo, Y., Jing, X., Franzenberg, S., Bost, A., Douglas, A. E., & , (2015). The host as driver of the microbiota in the gut and external environment of Drosophila melanogaster. AEM: Applied and Environmental Microbiology. 81:632-640.Raguso, R. A., Agrawal, A., Douglas, A., Jander, G., Kessler, A., Poveda, K., & Thaler, J. S. (2015). The raison d'etre of chemical ecology. Ecology. 96:617-630.Presentations and Activities Water Relations in Plant Sap-Feeding Insects: from molecular function to pest control targets. Annual Meeting of the Entomological Society of America. November 2015. Entomological Society of America. Minneapolis, MN. Biology without Borders. September 2015. Cornell University. Ithaca, NY. The Multi-Organismal Animal: Insights from Insect-Microbial Interactions. Symbiosis and Developmental Biology. September 2015. University of Minnesota. Minneapolis, MN. Insect-Microbial Symbioses. Frontiers in Host-Microbe Interactions. August 2015. Woods Hole Marine Biological Association. Woods Hole, MA. Functional consequences of genomic decay in bacterial symbionts of insects. Ecological & Evolutionary Genomics. July 2015. Gordon Research Conference. Bideford, NH. Metabolic Coevolution:how insect hosts converse with symbionts subject to genomic decay. Animal-Microbe Symbioses. June 2015. Gordon Research Conference. Waterville Valley, NH. How gut microbes interact with animals: insights from Drosophila. 6th Congress of European Microbiologists. June 2015. FEMS. Maastricht, Netherlands. The Ultimate Extreme Diet:How Insects Exploit Plant Sap. April 2015. Kansas State University. Manhattan, KS. Metabolic Coevolution between Symbiotic Bacteria and their Insect Hosts. Annual Meeting of German Society for Microbiology . March 2015. German Society for Microbiology . Marburg, Germany. The Multi-Organismal Animal: Insights from Drosophila and its gut microbiota. January 2015. Emory University. Atlanta, GA. AppointmentsEntomologyAreas of Expertiseanimal symbiosis with microorganismsbeneficial microbescooperation in naturegenetic and physiological basis of microbiota-dependent traits of animalsgut microbiota of drosophilainsect biologyintracellular symbioses in insectsGraduate FieldsNutritionEducationDoctorateUniversity of Aberdeen1981Bachelor of ArtsUniversity of Oxford1978 PeopleFaculty Adjunct Professors Emeriti Faculty Administrative Staff Graduate Students Postdoctoral and Academic Staff Undergraduate Students Technical Staff Alumni Spotlight Angela Douglas Notables Ancient symbiosis points to possible whitefly controls 2020 Cornell University Secondary menuWeb Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy Contact Us Log in
