Michael Stewart Scott Morton | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Michael Stewart Scott Morton Support Staff Channa Yem (617) 324-7519 channay@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-423-1 mssm@mit.edu (617) 253-7175 (617) 253-2660 Title Jay W. Forrester Professor of Management (Emeritus) Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management, Emeritus 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Michael Stewart Scott Morton is the Jay W. Forrester Professor of Management, Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He has most recently been involved with CMI. This is a joint venture between Cambridge University and MIT, funded by the UK's DTI.The program is designed to contribute to improving Britain's performance in the areas of productivity, competitiveness, and entrepreneurship.Scott Mortontaught and did research at MIT in the areas of Corporate Strategy and the options opened up to businesses by the evolving communications and information technologies.He studied engineering at Glasgow University before moving to the USA and completing his undergraduate education at Carnegie Mellon University. After working in the computer field he obtained his doctorate at the Harvard Business School. Scott Morton joined the faculty of MIT in 1966, initially in the fields of Accounting and Control Systems. His early work formed the basis of what became known as Decision Support Systems: the use by managers of interactive computer systems to support their decision-making.Scott Mortonserved as group head of the Information Systems area at MIT Sloan and was instrumental in the founding of the Center for Information Systems Research (CISR). From 1976-1981 he served as the Deputy Dean of MIT Sloan and in 1981 began researching and teaching in the area of Corporate Strategy. In 1983he became area head of the Strategy Group. In 1984 he initiated a joint research program with 10 corporations in the UK and US on Management in the 1990s; this resulted in two books published byOxford University Press. In 1992 Scott Morton became the area head for the Behavioral Policy Sciences Group. From 1995-1999 he was the codirector of a school-wide research initiative, Inventing the Organizations of the 21st Century (The MIT Press). He has authored or coauthored 8 books and numerous articles.Scott Morton has been involved in founding three companies and is active as an Angel investor.He has previously served as non-executive director on the main boards of: Index Systems Inc; Emhart Corporation; ICL Plc; Sequent Computer Systems; Genrad Corporation, and Merrill Corporation. He was a trustee of the State Street Research and Management Company funds and the Metropolitan Life Series Funds.His formal "not for profit sector" appointments are: governor of the Handel and Haydn Society; member of the Court of Glasgow University; director andvice chairman of the Board of the National Trust for Scotland Foundation.He has two children and five grandchildren. His wife Mary died in 2012. He married Marcy Gefter and they share their time between Boston and his home in Argyll, Scotland. Publications SSRN Inventing the Organizations of the 21st Century. Malone, Thomas W., Robert Laubacher and Michael S. Scott Morton. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, 2003. Information Technology and the Corporation of the 1990s: Research Studies. Allen, Thomas and Scott Morton, Michael. 1995. The Corporation of the 1990's: Information Technology and Organizational Transformation. Edited by Michael, S., Scott Morton. 1991. Decision Support Systems: An Organizational Perspective. Keen, Peter, Michael S. Scott Morton. Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1978. "Framework for Management Control Systems." Gorry,Anthony; Michael S.Scott Morton. (1971). The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
