Chloe L. Xie | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Chloe L. Xie linkedin curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building E62-665 chloexie@mit.edu (999) 999-9999 Title Assistant Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Chloe Xie is an Assistant Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her research focuses on capital market imperfections such as limits to arbitrage, deviations from von Neumann-Morgenstern preferences, criminal behavior, etc. and how these frictions shape the information environment. Her research also considers how these frictions affect disclosure decisions, asset pricing, investor decision-making, and non-financial market outcomes.She previously worked as a consultant advising financial institutions on valuation, mergers/acquisitions, and corporate strategy.Chloe Xie holds a PhD in business administration from Stanford University's Graduate School of Business. Publications "A Structural Approach to Estimating Search Frictions in Labour Markets." Xie, Chloe, and Jonathan Wallen, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6125-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. "Analyst Forecasts and Qualitative Information: The Inefficient Processing of Media Sentiment." Xie, Chloe and Joseph Piotroski, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6122-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. "Social Interaction as a Determinant of Audit Engagement Decisions." Xie, Chloe, Steven Mitsuda, and Maureen McNichols, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6123-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. "Strategic Disclosure and Investor Loss Aversion." Xie, Chloe and Joseph Piotroski, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6119-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. "The Signal Quality of Earnings Announcements: Evidence from an Informed Trading Cartel." Xie, Chloe, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6121-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2019. "Discretionary Disclosure Complexity: New Predictions and Evidence from Index Funds." deHaan, Ed, Yang Song, Chloe Xie, Christina Zhu, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6120-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2019. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Meet MIT Sloans 4 new faculty members These faculty members are experts in decision-making, behavioral economics, and more. Jul 8, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Knowledge@Wharton How to select your mutual fund? Look for clarity Sep 21, 2020 It turns out that funds tend to obfuscate high fees with unnecessary complexity in their disclosures, according to a new paper. Faculty: Chloe L. Xie The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
