Rahul Bhui | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Rahul Bhui curriculum vitae Get in Touch rbhui@mit.edu https://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rbhui/ Title Assistant Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Rahul Bhui is an Assistant Professor of Management Science in the Marketing Group at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research combines cognitive science, computational neuroscience, and behavioral economics to reveal the deep unifying principles that capture both rationality and irrationality. His work has been published in peer-reviewed journals such as Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Nature Communications, Psychological Review, and Psychological Science, and featured in media outlets such as USA Today, the LA Times, and Scientific American.Prior to joining the faculty at MIT, Rahul was Mind Brain Behavior Postdoctoral Fellow in the Departments of Psychology and Economics at Harvard University. He holds a BA (Hon) in Economics from the University of British Columbia, as well as an MS in Behavioral and Social Neuroscience and PhD in Computation and Neural Systems from Caltech. Publications "Paradoxical Effects of Persuasive Messages." Bhui, Rahul and Samuel J. Gershman. Decision. Forthcoming. "Rationally Inattentive Intertemporal Choice." Gershman, Samuel J., and Rahul Bhui. Nature Communications Vol. 11, No. 3365 (2020): 1-8. "Work Time and Market Integration in the Original Affluent Society." Bhui, Rahul, Maciej Chudek, and Joseph Henrich. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 116, No. 44 (2019): 22100-05. PDF. "Falling behind: Time and Expectations-based Reference Dependence." Bhui, Rahul. Decision Vol. 6, No. 3 (2019): 287-303. "Structured, Uncertainty-driven Exploration in Real-world Consumer Choice." Schulz, Eric, Rahul Bhui, Bradley C. Love, Bastien Brier, Michael T. Todd, and Samuel J. Gershman. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 116, No. 28 (2019): 13903-08. PDF. Supporting Information. "A Statistical Test for the Optimality of Deliberative Time Allocation." Bhui, Rahul. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review Vol. 26, No. 3 (2019): 855-867. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Meet MIT Sloans 4 new faculty members These faculty members are experts in decision-making, behavioral economics, and more. Jul 8, 2020 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
