Nicholas A. Ashford | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nicholas A. Ashford Get in Touch Building E17-371 NASHFORD@MIT.EDU (617) 253-1664 http://ashford.mit.edu Title Professor of Technology & Policy Director, Technology & Law Program 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Institute for Work and Employment Research Nicholas Ashford is Professor of Technology & Policy and Director of the Technology & Law Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he teaches courses in Environmental Law, Policy, and Economics; Law, Technology, and Public Policy; and Technology, Globalization, and Sustainable Development. Dr. Ashford is a Faculty Associate of the Center for Socio-technical Research and the Engineering Systems Division in the School of Engineering; the Institute for Work and Employment Research in the Sloan School of Management; and the Environmental Policy Group in the Urban Studies Department. Dr. Ashford is a visiting scientist at the Harvard School of Public Health and teaches intensive courses in sustainable development, and European & Iinternational environmental law at Cambridge University, UK, and at the Cyprus University of Technology.Dr. Ashford is the coauthor of two recent textbooks/readers: Technology, Globalization, and Sustainable Development: Transforming the Industrial State (2011, Yale University Press) and Environmental Law, Policy and Economics: Reclaiming the Environmental Agenda (2008, MIT Press). He also authored a major policy work for the Ford Foundation, Crisis in the Workplace: Occupational Disease and Injury, (1976, MIT Press). He coauthored four additional books: Public Participation in Contaminated Communities, (2001); Chemical Exposures: Low Levels and High Stakes (second edition 1998, John Wiley Press); Technology, Law and the Working Environment (second edition 1996, Island Press) and Monitoring the Worker for Exposure and Disease (1990, John Hopkins University Press). He has published several hundred articles in peer-reviewed journals and law reviews.Dr. Ashford was a public member and chairman of the National Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety & Health, served on the EPA Science Advisory Board, and was chairman of the Committee on Technology Innovation & Economics of the EPA National Advisory Council for Environmental Policy and Technology. Dr. Ashford is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and former chair of its Section on Societal Impacts of Science and Engineering. He served as an advisor to the United Nations Environment Programme and is also a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Cleaner Production, the Journal of Environmental Technology and Management, the Journal of Environmental Policy & Governance, and Environmental Innovation & Societal Transitions.He has served as co-chair of the US-Greece Council for the Initiative on Technology Cooperation with the Balkans.Dr. Ashford's research interests include sustainability, trade and environment; regulatory law and economics; the design of government policies for encouraging both technological innovation, and improvements in health, safety and environmental quality; pollution prevention and cleaner/inherently safer production; labor's participation in technological change; and environmental justice. He has developed methodologies for decision-making in the regulation of chemicals and has extensively investigated the effects of regulation on technological innovation in the chemical, pharmaceutical, and automobile industries. Dr. Ashford's research activities include work for the United Nations Environment Programme, the OECD, and the European Union, as well as for U.S. regulatory agencies and the U.S. Office of Technology Assessment.He holds both a PhD in chemistry and a Law Degree from the University of Chicago, where he also received graduate education in economics. Publications Google Scholar "A Four-day Workweek:A Policy for Improving Employment and Environmental Conditions in Europe." Ashford, Nicholas A., and Giorgos Kallis. The European Financial Review (2013). "Reducing Physical Hazards: Encouraging Inherently Safer Production." Ashford, Nicholas A. In Handbook of Green Chemistry Green Processes Volume 9: Designing Safer Chemicals, 485-500. Weinheim, Germany: Wiley-VCH, 2013. "Addressing the Crisis in Employment and Consumer Demand: Reconciliation with Financial and Environmental Sustainability." Ashford, Nicholas A., Ralph P. Hall, and Robert Ashford. The European Financial Review (2012). "Broadening Capital Acquisition with the Earnings of Capital as a Means of Sustainable Growth and Environmental Sustainability." Ashford, Robert, Ralph P. Hall, and Nicholas A. Ashford. The European Financial Review (2012). "The Crisis in Employment and Consumer Demand: Reconciliation with Environmental Sustainability." Ashford, Nicholas A., Ralph P. Hall, and Robert H. Ashford. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions Vol. 2, No. 1 (2012): 1-22. "Technology, Globalization and Sustainable Development: Transforming the Industrial State." N. A. Ashford and R. P. Hall. Yale University Press (2011). Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 2018 books from MIT Sloan faculty From blockchain to collective bargaining, here are the books from MIT Sloan faculty that made their debut in 2018. Dec 18, 2018 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
