Stephen C. Graves | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Stephen C. Graves curriculum vitae Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-579 sgraves@mit.edu (617) 253-6602 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/sgraves/ Title Abraham J. Siegel Professor of Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Stephen Graves is the Abraham J. Siegel Professor of Managementand a Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. He has a joint appointment with the MIT Department of Mechanical Engineering.Graves develops and applies operations research models and methods to solve problems in manufacturing and distribution systems and in service operations. His current research is focused on operational issues arising in online retailing, supply chain optimization and strategic inventory positioning, and production and capacity planning for various contexts.Graves holds an AB in mathematics and social sciences and an MBA from Dartmouth College, and an MS and a PhD from the University of Rochester. Honors Graves elected to National Academy of Engineering Steve Graves has been elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering for his contributions to the modeling and analysis of manufacturing systems and supply chains. Considered among the highest professional distinctions for an engineer, election to the NAE honors outstanding contributions to engineering research, practice, or education, including significant contributions to the engineering literature and to the pioneering of new and developing fields of technology, making major advancements in traditional fields of engineering, or developing/implementing innovative approaches to engineering education. The newly elected NAE class of 2018 will be formally inducted in Washington, D.C., later this year. Read More Graves wins INFORMS prize Steve Graves has received the INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Societys 2017 Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Best Paper Award. This annual award recognizes a paper, from among those published in the prior three volumes of Manufacturing & Service Operations Management, for its contribution to the theory and practice of operations management. The winning paper, co-authored with Jason Acimovic (Penn State University Smeal College of Business and past MIT Operations Research Center doctoral student), is entitled Making Better Fulfillment Decisions on the Fly in an Online Retail Environment (Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 17(1):34-51). The award was presented at the Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Societys business meeting during the 2017 INFORMS annual meeting in Houston. Read More Steve Graves has been named a POMS (Production and Operations Management Society) Fellow Stephen C. Graves has been named a POMS (Production and Operations Management Society) Fellow. Each year at most two OM researchers are recognized for their exceptional contributions to the Operations Management profession and the Society through their research and teaching. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Making Better Fulfillment Decisions on the Fly in and Online Retail Environment." Acimovic, Jason, and Stephen C. Graves. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Vol. 17, No. 1 (2015): 34-51. Featured Publication "Inventory Management in a Consumer Electronics Closed-Loop Supply Chain." Calmon, Andre, and Stephen C. Graves. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Vol. 19, No. 4 (2017): 568-585. "Item Aggregation and Column Generation for Online-Retail Inventory Placement." Chen, Annie I., and Stephen C. Graves. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. "Reflections on the Evolution of Operations Management." Graves, Stephen C. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Warranty Matching in a Consumer Electronics Closed-Loop Supply Chain." Calmon, Andre, Stephen C. Graves, and Stef Lemmans. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. "How to Think about Planned Lead Times." Graves, Stephen C., MIT Sloan Working Paper 6180-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, December 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 technologies remaking the supply chain Artificial intelligence, blockchain, robotics, 3D printing, and the internet of things are set to supercharge supply chains. Feb 14, 2020 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
