Roberta Pittore | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Roberta Pittore Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-417 rpittore@mit.edu (781) 608-0902 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, Managerial Communications 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Roberta Pittore is a Senior Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management.She focuses on communication as it influences teamwork, perceptions of leadership, and decision-making in organizations. Her teaching emphasizes the design and analysis of persuasive messages and in using negotiation techniques to foster business decisions.Pittore is a faculty mentor for the Action Learning Programs Global Entrepreneurship Lab and China-India Lab. She has worked with student teams on consulting projects in Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, New Zealand, Turkey, Brazil, Colombia, and China. She was the faculty lead for Study Tours to South Korea, Brazil,Mongolia and China, Argentina and Chile, and Israel.Prior to teaching, Pittore spent more than 20 years in the corporate sector where her work included communication consulting, executive training, working as a stockbroker for E.F. Hutton, and the role of associate vice president at Prudential Bache Securities.Pittore holds a BS in communication from Emerson College, an MS in communication from Boston University, and an MBA from Simmons College Graduate School of Management. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter What Starbucks got wrong and right after Philadelphia arrests The companys initial response was swift, but lacked specifics and sincerity. May 18, 2018 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
