Thomas J. Allen | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Thomas J. Allen Get in Touch Building E62-360 tallen@mit.edu (617) 253-6651 (617) 452-3331 Title Howard W. Johnson Professor of Management, Emeritus Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management and Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences MIT Sloan remembers Professor Emeritus Thomas Allen and offers condolences to his family, friends, and colleagues.Thomas J. Allen, 89, Professor of Management and Organizational PsychologyThomas J. Allen, a Professor of Organizational Psychology and Management at the Sloan School of Management, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on November 13th at the age of 89 after a brief illness. He was known for ground-breaking studies on the problem solving and communication behaviors of engineers and scientists and the role of the technological gatekeeper for effective knowledge and information transfer.Professor Allens research focused on the interaction of organizational structure and human behavior. He examined the influence of architectural layout on communication, reward systems for technical professionals, and international technology transfer. In addition to work with the defense aircraft industry as part of MITs Lean Aircraft Initiative, he also studied the pharmaceutical industry for many years, addressing issues such as project management, industry structure change, and the impact of government regulations on innovation.Born in Newark, NJ, Professor Allen was a proud graduate of St. Benedicts Preparatory School and Upsala College, where he received a BS in Physics in 1954. He wrestled and played as a hard-nosed guard on the varsity football team, developing a work ethic from sports that would underlay his subsequent professional success. In 1952, he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps Reserve and served overseas on active duty from 1954 to 1956with VMR-253 in Japan and Korea, finally completing his enlisted service in the USMC Reserve in 1960 with the rank of Sergeant. He subsequently spentnine years with the Boeing Aircraft Company in Seattle, WA and Lexington, MA as a research engineer engaged in weapon-control system analysis and design.Professor Allen received an SM in Electrical Engineering in 1963 and a PhD in Organizational Management in 1966 from MIT. From 1960 to 1963, while working part-time towards his masters degree, he had the good fortune of establishing a friendship with his eventual mentor, Professor Donald Marquis.This friendship led to his initial connection with the Sloan School of Management and a subsequent fruitful professional collaboration to study the problem solving and communication behavior of research and development engineers and scientists. The first of these studies employed instances of parallel research (two or more groups working independently onthe same project) as a mechanism to provide a control over the substance ofthe research problem, while examining the sources of the technology used insolving the problem. He followed this work with studies of laboratory technical communications networks, looking at the factors that determine their structure and effectiveness. It was during this research that he first explicated the role of the technological gatekeeper in technology transfer and developed the Allen Curve, which quantified the exponential drop in frequency of communication between engineers as the distance between them increases. These principles ultimately had a very strong influence on the evolution of commercial architectural design, with signature examples being the BMW Research Center in Munich, the Decker Engineering Building in New York, the Steelcase Corporate Development Center in Michigan, and the Volkswagen Assembly and Delivery Center in Dresden. He later applied similar research methods to the study of international technology transfer.Following three years as a Research Associate at MIT in the mid-1960s, Professor Allen received his initial appointment to the faculty in the Sloan School Management in 1966, when he received his PhD. He was later appointed to the Gordon Y. Billard Professorship in Management from 1985 to 1993 and the Howard W. Johnson Professor of Management Chair in the Management of Technological Innovation Group from 1993 to 2013. From 1985 to 1989 he was Research Director for the Management in the 1990s Program and from 1989 to 1994 he was Director of the International Center for Research on the Management of Technology. From 1991, he served as Co-director of the Program on the Pharmaceutical Industry, from 1995 as Co-director of the Lean Aerospace Initiative, and from 1998 as Professor of Engineering Systems in the MIT Engineering Systems Division. He continued to teach regular courses at MIT until his final retirement to Emeritus status in 2014. In addition to his academic activities, he remained a strong advocate of the importance of athletic participation in the university educational experience and served as Chair of the MIT Athletic Board for over 25 years and as a representative to several NCAA Conventions.In 1993, MIT recognized Professor Allens superior teaching performance witha 10-year appointment as a MacVicar Faculty Fellow. From 1983 to 1985, he served as Associate Chairman of the Faculty at MIT and then as Senior Associate Dean of the Sloan School from 1994 to 1998.After a sabbatical appointment at the University of Manchester in England in 1969, Professor Allen subsequently spent many rewarding decades working in Ireland. He was a Distinguished Visiting Professor at the University College Dublin from 1993 and eventually served as the founding Director of the National Institute of Technology Management (NITM) at the Smurfit School of Business from 1997 to 2004. He continued as Chairman of its Academic Advisory Board until 2011.Professor Allen is the author of over 56 professional publications, including his classic book Managing the Flow of Technology (1977). He was also co-author of The Organization and Architecture of Innovation, Lean Enterprise Value Insights from MITs Lean Aerospace Initiative, and Architectural and Organizational Design, as well as co-editor of Information Technology and the Corporation of the 1990s: Research Studies, and Building Technology Transfer Within Research Universities: An Entrepreneurial Approach. He has been recognized for overall professional achievement and specific contributions to the educational programs at numerous European universities by the receipt of honorary degrees from the Rijksuniversiteit Gent (Dr. Mgt (Hon)), in Ghent, Belgium in 1990, the Chalmers Tekniska Hgskola (ScD (Hon)) in Gteborg, Sweden in 1992, Linkpings Universitet (PhD (Hon)) in Linkping, Sweden in 2001 and the Universitat Ramon Llull (PhD (Hon)) in Barcelona, Spain in 2002.In addition to his professional achievements, Professor Allen will be fondly remembered by the many individuals whose lives he touched through his many years of dedicated volunteer service. He volunteered to help youth sports in Lexington, MA and Rosary Academy in Watertown, MA as an ice hockey and soccer coach, and assisted Catholic education in the Archdioceseof Boston through participation in numerous fund-raising activities and advisory committees at Rosary Academy in Watertown, MA, Malden Catholic in Malden, MA and Mt. St. Josephs Academy in Brighton, MA. A devout Roman Catholic, Professor Allen actively participated for many years as a member of the Parish Pastoral Councils at St. Bernard Parish in West Newton,MA, St. Elizabeth of Hungary Parish in Acton, MA and Our Lady Comforter of the Afflicted Parish in Waltham, MA. He also chaired the Faculty Advisory Committee of the Tech Catholic Committee at MIT and served as a member of the Archdiocese of Boston Ecumenical Council, chairing the Catholic/JewishCommittee and participating in the 1986 Archdiocesan Synod.Professor Allen will be best remembered for his kind smile, generous heart, and limitless and complete dedication to his family. His MIT and worldwide network of academic colleagues will also remember him for outstanding professional achievements and a lifelong commitment to academic integrity. He is survived by his wife, Joan M. Allen, children Thomas J. (Fleur) Allen Jr. ofAvondale Heights, Australia, Susan M. (Michael) Golden of Marblehead, MA and Mirn A. (Jason) Friday of Marshfield, MA, grandchildren, amonn, Declan and Niamh Golden and Molly, Meg and Aislinn Friday and brother, John M. Allen of Newark, NJ. Publications SSRN Information Technology and the Corporation of the 1990s: Research Studies. Allen, Thomas and Scott Morton, Michael. 1995. Managing the Flow of Technology. Allen, Thomas. 1984. "Optimal Height for a Research Laboratory." Fusfeld, A.R., Allen, T.J., Working Paper. 1974. "Research Laboratory Architecture and the Structuring of Communications." Allen, T.J., Fusfeld, A.R., Working Paper. 1974. "Getting the Word Around Report of a Pilot Study on Technology Transfer to Irish Industry." Allen, T., Reilly, V., Working Paper. 1973. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
