Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Gilly Parker (617) 253-5074 gillyp_5@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E60-382 ewzucker@mit.edu (617) 253-1918 (617) 258-6617 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/esivan/ Title Alvin J. Siteman (1948) Professor of Entrepreneurship and Strategy Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management and Work and Organization Studies Associate Dean for Teaching and Learning 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Ezra Zuckerman Sivan is Associate Dean for Teaching and Learning and theAlvin J. Siteman (1948) Professor of Strategy and Entrepreneurship.He is also cofounder of MIT Sloan's PhD Program in Economic Sociology.Zuckerman Sivan is an economic sociologist whose research focuses on showing how anunderstanding of fundamental social processes is important for shedding light on keyissues in business and management, as well as how an appreciation for the dynamics ofbusiness and management inform our understanding of fundamental socialprocesses. He is perhaps best known for demonstrating the importance of categoricalstructures in shaping valuation in various markets. Zuckerman Sivan's master's and executive level teaching centers on competitive and technology strategy, and he teaches two doctoral courses, "Sociology of Strategy" and "Identity and Action."He holds a BA in political science from Columbia University as well as an MA and a PhD in sociology from the University of Chicago. Honors Zuckerman Sivan wins ASA award Ezra Zuckerman Sivan was named a winner of the 2019 Cooley-Mead Prize for best article, Social Psychology section of the American Sociological Association, for his paper The Authentic Appeal of the Lying Demagogue: Proclaimingthe Deeper Truth about Political Illegitimacy." The paper's co-authors are Oliver Hahl and Minjae Kim. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "The Categorical Imperative Revisited: Implications of Categorization as a Theoretical Tool." Sivan, Ezra Zuckerman. In From Categories to Categorization: Studies in Sociology, Organizations and Strategy at the Crossroads, 31-68. Bingley, UK: Emerald Group Publishing, 2017. Featured Publication "Why Elites Love Authentic Lowbrow Culture: Overcoming High-Status Denigration with Outsider Art." Hahl, Oliver, Ezra Zuckerman Sivan, and Minjae Kim. American Sociological Review Vol. 82, No. 4 (2017): 828-856. "Death of the Salesman, But Not the Sales Force: How Interested Promotion Skews Scientific Valuation." Azoulay, Pierre, J. Michael Wahlen, and Ezra Zuckerman Sivan. American Journal of Sociology Vol. 125, No. 3 (2019): 786-845. "Can a Girls Best Friend Be Born in a Lab? The Role of Ritual in Production Process Conservatism." Ha, Jae Kyung, Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan, and Renee Gosline. In Advances in Group Processes, edited by Edward Lawler and S.R.Thye, 1-27. Bingley, UK: Emerald Publishing Limited, 2018. "The Problems and Promise of Hierarchy: Voice Rights and the Firm." Freeland, Robert F. and Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan. Sociological Science (2018). "The Authentic Appeal of the Lying Demagogue: Proclaiming the Deeper Truth about Political Illegitimacy." Hahl, Oliver, Minjae Kim, and Ezra Zuckerman Sivan. American Sociological Review Vol. 83, No. 1 (2018): 1-33. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about social media and misinformation Fake news and misinformation peak online during presidential election years. Experts look at how they spread and what can be done to stop them. Oct 5, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter When the lying demagogue is the authentic candidate New research examines why voters respond positively to a candidates blatant lies and demagoguery. Apr 17, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Universidad de Chile Rector Vivaldi se reuni en Boston con representantes de Universidad de ... Jun 4, 2019 Faculty: Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan Staff: David Capodilupo Source: The Guardian Why we stopped trusting elites Nov 29, 2018 Faculty: Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
