Luis Spencer Barros | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Luis Spencer Barros Get in Touch Building E40-420 lbarros@mit.edu (617) 324-8207 Title Lecturer, Action Learning About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Luis Barros is a Lecturer in the Global Economics Management Group at MIT Sloan.He is managing partner of Leading Business Ventures (LBV), an investment entity and consultancy, and director &audit committee member of the ECOWAS Investment and Development Bank (BIDC) in Africa.As a practitioner and scholar, his activities focus on working with organizational leaders in strategically utilizing financing instruments, venture education pedagogy, data-driven market insights and innovation interventions to enable commercialization, economic impact, digital transformation, ecosystem effectiveness, and value creation.Barros is an investor, entrepreneur and consultant with over 27 years of experience in science and technology sectors.As a consultant, Barros concurrently served as venture partner of Portugal Ventures and CoDirector of Innovation and Industry at MIT Portugal Program. In addition, LBVs application of multi-disciplinary methodologies and speaking engagements have spanned 34 countries and five continents. This includes or has included serving as senior advisor to multinational corporations, such as Cardinal Health and a Japanese biopharmas oncology division, and a corporate development partnering series featuring MedTech conglomerates. LBV was contracted to provide guidance to numerous startups and scale-ups via various roles with mentor-based Accelerators and SBIR-funded companies of the NIH, DOD, NSF, and Draper Laboratories.Prior to LBV, Barros was on the founding teams which architected and implemented venture funds, such as Massachusetts $1B Life Sciences Center, Lilly Ventures, and IC Sciences (formed by the cofounders of Boston Scientific); and served on the compliance staff at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).As a serial-entrepreneur, Barros held leadership roles in early stage venture-backed entities, including an AI-driven interactive bioinformatics company and an application virtualization platform, both respectively acquired by publicly-traded companies. He began his career via successive sales and marketing roles in surgical and clinical pharmacology in blue chip companies.Barros has degrees from MIT-Sloan (MBA), University of Pennsylvania (MS.Ed), UMASS Amherst-Isenberg (BBA), and is a graduate of Harvards Executive Program on Board Governance. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
