Stewart Myers | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Stewart Myers curriculum vitae Support Staff Idali Vega Sanchez (617) 715-4834 ivega@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-620 scmyers@mit.edu (617) 253-6696 (617) 258-6855 Title Robert C. Merton (1970) Professor of Financial Economics, Emeritus Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research Stewart C. Myers is the Robert C. Merton (1970) Professor of Finance, Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Myers is past President of the American Finance Association, a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and a principal of the Brattle Group, Inc. His textbook Principles of Corporate Finance (12th ed., with Richard Brealey and Franklin Allen) is known as the bible of financial management.His research focuses on the valuation of real and financial assets, corporate finance, and financial aspects of government regulation of business. He introduced both the tradeoff and pecking order theories of capital structure, and was the first to recognize the importance of real options in corporate finance.Myers is the author of influential research papers on many topics, including adjusted present value (APV), rate of return regulation, capital allocation and risk management in banking and insurance, real options, payout policy, and moral hazard and information issues in financing decisions. He has served as a director of Entergy Corporation and CAT Ltd. and as a manager of the Cambridge Endowment for Research in Finance.He holds an AB from Williams College and an MBA and a PhD from Stanford University.Current Research Focus:Myers's current research focuses on three areas: (1) Theoretical models of the long-run dynamics of capital investment, payout and borrowing decisions by mature public corporations. The models have important implications for corporate governance as well as corporate finance generally, (2) Efficient allocation of risk capital by banks and other financial firms, and (3) Valuation of real options, accounting for option leverage, taxes and implications for capital structure. Honors Stewart Myers wins Onassis Prize for Finance Stewart Myers has won the 2015 Onassis Prize for Finance, for his foundational contributions to finance since the beginning of its transformation to a rigorous science-based discipline, nearly a half century ago. The prestigious honor recognizes Myers for his influential research on capital structure and capital budgeting valuation. Read More Stew Myers is a co-winner of the 2009 III Edition of the Jaime Fernndez de Araoz Corporate Finance Award Stew Myers is a co-winner of the 2009 III Edition of the Jaime Fernandez de Araoz Corporate Finance Award, which was created to encourage the development of knowledge within the field of corporate finance by rewarding individuals or teams that contribute to this field through their research work or applied experience. The award was for the paper "The Internal Governance of Firms" (joint with Viral V. Acharya and Raghuram Rajan), for opening new and pathbreaking insights into corporate governance structures which had not been explored up to date in the classical agency theory perspective, as well as opening very promising research possibilities for scholarly work in this area. Read More Stew Myers has been appointed as a Research Fellow of the European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI) Stew Myers's appointment was announced earlier this month at the ECGI's General Assembly in Barcelona. The ECGI, which was founded in 2002, is an international scientific non-profit association. It provides a forum for debate and dialogue between academics, legislators and practitioners, focusing on major corporate governance issues and thereby promoting best practice. Read More Publications SSRN "Real Options, Taxes and Financial Leverage." Myers, Stewart and James A. Read Jr. Critical Finance Review Vol. 9, No. 1-2 (2020): 29-76. "The Dynamics of Investment, Payout and Debt." Lambrecht, Bart M. and Stewart Myers. The Review of Financial Studies Vol. 30, No. 11 (2017): 37593800. "Agency Dynamics in Corporate Finance." Lambrecht, Bart M. and Stewart Myers. Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 8, (2016): 53-80. "A Theory of Risk Capital." Erel, Isil, Stewart Myers and James A. Read, Jr. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 118, No. 3 (2015): 620-635. "Finance, Theoretical and Applied." Myers, Stewart. Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 7, (2015): 1-34. Fundamentals of Corporate Finance. Myers, Stewart. Boston, MA: Irwin/McGraw-Hill, 2013. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
