Imran Sayeed | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Imran Sayeed Get in Touch Building E52-538 isayeed@mit.edu (617) 281-5197 Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Imran Sayeed is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Sayeed also serves as the Chief Technology Officer for NTT Data, Inc., the sixth largest IT services company in the world with $16 Billion in revenue, and part of NTT Group, the worlds largest telecommunications company with $130 Billion in revenue and 220,000 employees. In this role, Sayeed works with the leadership to help define the technology strategy and direction for the global organization. Sayeed came to NTT through its acquisition of Keane, where he led a 7000 person technology consulting organization and before that netNumina, a boutique technology strategy and consulting form that he founded and grew from a 15-person startup to one of Computerworlds Top 100 emerging companies and Inc 500s fastest growing businesses. Previously, as a founder of Open Environment, Sayeed grew the company from a 10-person startup to an IPO.Sayeed is also part of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation faculty at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he teaches in the MBA program. He was also the founding global president of OPEN, an entrepreneurship and leadership organization, which has over 5000 executives and entrepreneurs in 11 cities around the world. He also holds a patent on Internet technology he jointly developed with Citibank. Sayeed was named by Computerworld as one of the Premier 100 IT Leaders for 2013.Sayeed attended Brown University where he majored in Engineering, and Harvard University, where he did post-graduate work in business, marketing and product development. Media Highlights Source: Bloomberg Baystate Business (Audio) Apple, biotech, transportation Jan 3, 2019 Faculty: Imran Sayeed The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
