Sinan Kayhan Aral | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Sinan Kayhan Aral twitter linkedin Support Staff Aileen Menounos (617) 253-4936 aileenrm@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-364 sinana@mit.edu (617) 324-7535 http://www.sinanaral.io Title David Austin Professor of Management Professor, Information Technology and Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Sinan Aral is the David Austin Professor of Management at MIT, where he is a Professor of IT & Marketing, and Professor in the Institute for Data, Systems and Society where he co-leads MITs Initiative on the Digital Economy.He was the chief scientist at SocialAmp, one of the first social commerce analytics companies (until its sale to Merkle in 2012), and at Humin, a social platform that the Wall Street Journal called the first Social Operating System (until its sale to Tinder in 2016). He is currently a founding partner at Manifest Capital and on the Advisory Board of the Alan Turing Institute, the British National Institute for Data Science, in London. Sinan was the scholar-in-residence at the New York Times R&D Lab in 2013, and has worked closely with Facebook, Twitter, Snap, AirBnB, Yahoo, Jet.com, Microsoft, IBM, Intel, Cisco, Oracle, SAP, and many other leading Fortune 500 firms on realizing business value from big data analytics, social media, and IT investments.Sinans research has won numerous awards including the Microsoft Faculty Fellowship, the PopTech Science Fellowship, an NSF CAREER Award, and a Fulbright Scholarship. In 2014, he was named one of the Worlds Top 40 Business School Professors Under 40 by Businessweek.Sinan is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Northwestern University, holds Masters degrees from the London School of Economics and Harvard University, and received his PhD from MIT.He enjoys cooking, skiing, and telling jokes about his own cooking and skiing. His most recent hobby is learning from his four-year-old son. You can find Sinan on Twitter @sinanaral. Honors Aral and Eckles win for a working paper Sinan Aral and Dean Eckles have won the 2020 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) eBusiness Section Best Paper Award.Their winning working paper, Targeting for Long-Term Outcomes: Evidence from Large-Scale Field Experiments, was co-authored with Jeremy Yang (their MIT Sloan PhD student) and Paramveer Dhillon (University of Michigan), who is a former MIT Sloan postdoc and research associate. Read More "Fake news" research among the most discussed papers of 2018 Sinan Arals paper The Spread of True and False News Online (co-authored with Deb Roy and Soroush Vosoughi, both at MIT Media Lab), which was published on the cover of Science in March, has not only made the Top 10 of the Altmetric Top 100 list; it has been ranked by Altmetric as the second-most-talked-about academic paper of 2018 in any scientific discipline. In order to more fully capture the influence and reach of scholarly work and identify research generating significant international online attention and discussion, Altmetric tracks many distinct sources, includingin addition to a scholarly citation databasepublic-policy papers, news articles, blogs, syllabi, and social media networks like Facebook and Twitter. The ranking was announced in The most discussed and shared scientific research of 2018. Arals paper was given an Altmetric Attention Score of 8646, with details here. Read More Arals efforts to address fake news recognized Sinan Aral has won the 2018 Fellows Choice Award (Academic division), an Excellence in New Communications Award from the Society for New Communications Research of The Conference Board (SNCR). These awards honor the work of innovative organizations and individuals who are advancing the use of digital and social media, mobile media, collaborative technologies, virtual reality, and other emerging digital technologies to improve business, media, health, law, culture, and society. Fellows Choice Award winners were chosen by SNCR Fellows this year for their exemplary effort to address fake news. Arals winning paper, co-authored with Soroush Vosoughi and Deb Roy (both at the MIT Media Lab in the Laboratory for Social Machines), is entitled The Spread of True and False News Online. NCR, a research and education institution dedicated to the advanced study of how new and emerging communications tools and technologies are affecting business, media, health, law, culture, and society, is part of The Conference Board, a global, independent business membership and research association working to provide the worlds leading organizations with the practical knowledge needed to improve performance and better serve society. Read More Aral wins Herbert Simon Award Sinan Aral has been honored with the 2017 Herbert Simon Award of Rajk Lszl College for Advanced Studies in Budapest, Hungary, where members of the college study economics, business, and social sciences. The economics students there established the John von Neumann Award in 1995, and the business students established the Herbert Simon Award (named after Nobel laureate Herbert Simon) in 2005. The College Assembly who voted for Aral cited the way he combines outstanding research with real-life experience, noting that his groundbreaking thoughts in the fields of social commerce, information diffusion in social networks and big data applications would inspire us and improve our thinking on how technology shapes the worlds business environment. Aral will formally receive the award in 2018 when he visits Rajk Lszl College to give a public presentation and a college seminar. Read More Sinan Aral honored with best paper award Sinan Aral has won the Network Science Best Paper Award, sponsored by the Indiana University Network Science Institute. This first-ever award was chosen by the editors from all papers published in the first four volumes of the journal, from 2013 to 2016. Arals winning paper, co-authored with Lev Muchnik (Hebrew University of Jerusalem School of Business Administration senior lecturer) and Arun Sundararajan (New York University Stern School of Business professor), is entitled Engineering Social Contagions: Optimal Network Seeding in the Presence of Homophily. Read More Sinan Aral appointed to Scientific Advisory Board Sinan Aral has been appointed to serve on the Scientific Advisory Board of the Alan Turing Institute in London the British national institute for data science, headquartered at the British Library. Created in 2015 by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and five founding universities (Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, University College London, and Warwick), the Institutes mission is to make great leaps in data science research in order to change the world for the better. The seven-member Scientific Advisory Board, an independent group which will provide strategic advice to the institutes Board of Trustees and leadership team on its research program, includes experts from organizations around the world in academia, industry, and government, with a diverse range of skills and specializations spanning privacy, machine learning, engineering, microeconomics, and entrepreneurship. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Targeting for Long-term Outcomes." Yang, Jeremy, Dean Eckles, Paramveer Dhillon, and Sinan Aral, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6224-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2020. The Hype Machine. Aral, Sinan K. New York, NY: Random House LLC, 2020. "Interdependence and the Cost of Uncoordinated Responses to COVID-19." Holtz, David, Michael Zhao, Seth G. Benzell, Cathy Y. Cao, M. Amin Rahimian, Jeremy Yang, Jennifer Allen, Avinash Collis, Alex Moehring, Tara Sowrirajan, Dipayan Ghosh, Yunhao Zhang, Paramveer S. Dhillon, Christos Nicolaides, Dean Eckles, and Sinan Aral, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6111-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "The Interdependent Impacts of Regional COVID-19 Reopenings in the United States." Zhao, Michael and Sinan K. Aral, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6170-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. "Protecting Elections from Social Media Manipulation." Aral, Sinan K. and Dean Eckles. Science Vol. 365, No. 6456 (2019): 858-861. "Truth Disrupted." Aral, Sinan K. Harvard Business Review, July 2018. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter The promise and peril of The Hype Machine A new book looks at how social media is reshaping the world for good and bad and how to protect society and democracy from its threats. Sep 15, 2020 Read Article Press The first comprehensive study of state-by-state reopenings shows ad hoc policies exacerbate COVID A new study shows that uncoordinated opening, closing, and reopening of states and counties is making the COVID problem worse in the U.S. Sep 8, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Computer History Museum (Video) Building a better Hype Machine: How we can achieve the promise of social... Nov 23, 2020 When users stop to reflect...they are less likely to believe other fake news stories several minutes to an hour afterward. Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Source: Quartz What if antitrust regulators forced Google to sell Chrome? Nov 11, 2020 Owning the world's most popular web browser gives Google an opening to snoop on users' browsing activity in new ways. Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Michael A. Cusumano Source: Wired (Video) Debunking election & social media myths Oct 23, 2020 Sinan Aral takes a look at some common myths swirling around social media and the upcoming election, and examines their validity. Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Source: GBH | Innovation Hub (Audio) How social media is changing how society works Oct 6, 2020 Last April, states began to sporadically reopen their economies after weeks of being shut down. The uncoordinated reopening caused chaos. Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
