Maryam Farboodi | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Maryam Farboodi curriculum vitae Support Staff Nancy Suyo (617) 715-2845 NSUYO@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-627 farboodi@mit.edu (617) 378-8586 Title Jon D. Gruber Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Maryam Farboodi is the Jon D. Gruber Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her research interests are in the areas of financial frictions, corporate finance, macroeconomics, and mechanism design.Previously, Farboodi was an Assistant Professor at the Bendheim Center for Finance at Princeton University. Before that, she was a Postdoctoral Fellow at Princeton University.Farboodi holds a BSc in computer engineering from Sharif University of Technology, an MSc in computer science from the University of Maryland, College Park, an Msc in economics from the University of Texas at Austin, and a joint PhD in financial economics from the Booth School of Business and the Department of Economics at the University of Chicago.Current Research Focus: Maryam Farboodi,Jon D. Gruber Career Development Professor: Farboodi'sresearchfocuses on the effects of the rise of big data on financial institutions, real economy, and their interaction. She also studies intermediation within the financial sector, and the spillovers to the real economy. She is interested in how information frictions shape the local and global economics cycles, as well as network formation among financial institutions. Most recently, she is also working on understanding the covid-19 pandemic and associated policies. Honors Farboodi wins 2019 Young Researcher Award Maryam Farboodi has won the 2019 Young Researcher Award from the SCOR-PSE Chair on Macroeconomic Risk (created in 2018 by the SCOR Corporate Foundation for Science and the Paris School of Economics), honoring outstanding research by a junior economist (within 10 years of PhD) in the field of macroeconomic risk. The award recognizes Farboodi for her particularly stimulating and promising work in financial intermediation and deliberate exposure to counterparty risk: innovative research, both in method and hypothesis, on the relationships between financial institutions and how these relationships may contribute to endogenous growth in systemic risk, according to Andr Levy-Lang, chairman of the SCOR Foundation for Science. Farboodi presented her working paper entitled Intermediation and Voluntary Exposure to Counterparty Risk (October 2017) and received her award at a ceremony in July 2019 in Paris during the SCOR-PSE Chair annual conference. Read More Publications "Long Run Growth of Financial Data Technology." Farboodi, Maryam and Laura Veldkamp. American Economic Review Vol. 110, No. 8 (2020): 2485-2523. "Internal and External Effects of Social Distancing in a Pandemic." Farboodi, Maryam, Gregor Jarosch, and Robert Shimer, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6091-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "Rational Sentiments and Economic Cycles." Farboodi, Maryam, and Pter Kondor, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5969-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2020. "A Growth Model of the Data Economy." Farboodi, Maryam and Laura Veldkamp, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5968-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2020. "Big Data and Firm Dynamics." Farboodi, Maryam, Roxana Mihet, Thomas Philippon, and Laura Veldkamp. AER Papers and Proceedings Vol. 109, (2019): 38-42. "The Hidden Costs of Strategic Opacity." Babus, Ana, and Maryam Farboodi, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5970-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 4 forces upending business from MIT Sloan Management Review Building trust-based environments, establishing AI ethics, preventing big data inequality, and monitoring key performance indicators in real time. Jan 11, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Scor The SCOR-PSE Chair holds its second annual conference on macroeconomic r... Jul 15, 2019 Faculty: Maryam Farboodi Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) The problem with big data Dec 21, 2018 Faculty: Maryam Farboodi The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
