Mary Rowe | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Mary Rowe Support Staff Ryan Harrington (617) 715-5675 ryanharr@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-363 mrowe@mit.edu (617) 253-5902 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/mrowe/ Title Adjunct Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Mary Rowe is an Adjunct Professor of Negotiation and Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.As a conflict management specialist and an expert in interpersonal negotiations, Rowe hears from hundreds of people a year about serious conflicts and concerns. She served for 42 years as an organizational ombuds reporting directly to five presidents of MIT.Her research interests focus on the uses of power in interpersonal negotiations; harassment; dispute resolution system design; and coping with difficult people. She is especially interested in the role of bystanders in helping to affirm professional and productive behavior within organizations. Rowe taught Negotiations and Conflict Management for many yearsand consults widely to corporations, academic institutions, and government agencies. Her writing probes the subtle inequities experienced by people who are nontraditional in any context, micro-affirmations, conflicts of interest, and other classic workplace problems.Rowe holds a BA in history from Swarthmore College and aPhDin economics from Columbia University. Honors Rowes Negotiation Journal articles made free for a limited time Negotiation Journal is celebrating adjunct professor Mary Rowes decades of work in the journal with a special collection that freely makes her articles available all in one place until September 2021. These articles span decades. They look at questions like: the functions needed in an Integrated Conflict Management System (ICMSa concept named at MIT about 1974); the options that are needed by constituents who use that system who feel harassed; the role of an organizational ombuds in an ICMS; a book review comparison of other writing on what an ICMS is, and many other topics including a few notes on theory. Click here to view the articles. Read More Publications "Thinking About the Most Serious Cases Reported by Organizational Ombuds." Rowe, Mary, Timothy Hedeen, and Jennifer Schneider. The Independent Voice. International Ombudsman Association, September 2020. "What do Organizational Ombuds Do? And Not Do?" Rowe, Mary, Timothy Hedeen and Jennifer Schneider. The Independent Voice. International Ombudsman Association, September 2020. "Supporting Bystanders: See Something, Say Something is Not Enough." Rowe, Mary, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5897-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, January 2020. "Micro-inequities in Medicine." Silver, Julie K., Mary Rowe, Michael S. Sinha, Diana M. Molinares, Nancy D. Spector, and Debjani Mukherjee. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Vol. 10, No. 10 (2018): 1106-1114. Download paper. "Fostering Constructive Action by Peers and Bystanders in Organizations and Communities." Rowe, Mary. Negotiation Journal Vol. 34, No. 2 (2018): 137-163. "Ideas to Consider if You Have Been Harassed." Rowe, Mary, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5388-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, January 2018. Load More Recent Insights Press 'Negotiation Journal' unlocks MIT Sloan professors research and articles Decades of negotiation and conflict management research and articles written by one of MITs leading experts, Mary Rowe, are now freely available. Oct 29, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Revisiting a classic negotiation framework Insights into attitudinal restructuring and intra-organizational negotiations still hold the key to positive outcomes. Aug 21, 2019 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
