Andrey Zarur | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Andrey Zarur Get in Touch Building E51-315 azarur@mit.edu (617) 616-8188 617-253-8633 http://www.kodiakvp.com Title Lecturer, Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Andrey Zarur is a Senior Lecturer in the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship.Zarur is the founder and CEO of GreenLight Biosciences, a diversified biotechnology company developing RNA based solutions for human, animal, and plant health applications. He is also a cofounder and chairman of the board of Solid Biosciences, a biotechnology company focused on bringing therapies to market for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Previously, Zarur was the managing partner at Kodiak Venture Partners (KVP), a venture capital firm specializing in formation stage information and life technology investments. He has been active in early stage life sciences companies for over 15 years, and has actively participated in the creation of over a dozen companies in the healthcare and clean energy sectors.Zarur holds has authored over 100 patents and numerous peer-reviewed articles. He has been a member of the World Economic Forum Global Council in Biotechnology and was named a Young Global Leader by the WEF.Zarur holds undergraduate degrees from the National University of Mexico and an SM and a PhD in chemical engineering from MIT. Media Highlights Source: Expansin (Mexico) Este es el mexicano que desarrolla una vacuna contra el coronavirus Jun 23, 2020 Cundo llegar la vacuna contra el coronavirus? Es la pregunta que todo el mundo se hace, y tambin la que ms escucha el mexicano Andrey Zarur. Faculty: Andrey Zarur The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
