David Birnbach | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty David Birnbach Get in Touch Building E52-101 BIRNBACH@MIT.EDU (978) 590-0404 Title Lecturer, Global Economics and Management About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences David Birnbach is a Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management, where his focus is in the domains of action learning, technology innovation, and entrepreneurship. He is also an affiliate with MITs World Education Lab (J-WEL) where he works with faculty and staff to address global opportunities for transformative change in K-12 education.David is a member of the teaching team and a faculty mentor in several Action Learning programs, including Global Entrepreneurship (G-Lab), Enterprise Management (EM-Lab), China and India Lab, and Operations Lab (Ops Lab). He helps students put classroom theory into practice, as students work side-by-side with organizations to apply classroom lessons to high-impact business and society challenges.His teaching interests emanate from 20 years experience launching startups, building markets, and creating innovative engineering teams. David has played leadership roles with startups and global firms and has held the positions of ceo, svp sales and marketing, and director of research & development.David holds a BS in mathematics from the University of Arizona and an MS in management of technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
