Charles Kane | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Charles Kane Get in Touch Building E62-415 ckane@mit.edu (617) 921-2541 (617) 452-3172 Title Senior Lecturer, Global Economics and Management and Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Charles Kane is a Senior Lecturer in Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Strategic Management Goup and also in the Global Economics and Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Kane is currently chairman of the One Laptop per Child (OLPC) Foundation and was formerly the president of OLPC, a nonprofit organization that provides technology to enhance education in less developed countries. Prior to OLPC, Kane was a founding investor and CFO of Global BPO Services Corp., a Special Purpose Acquisition Corp. that acquired Stream Global Services.Prior to Global BPO, Kane was the CFO of RSA Security (acquired by EMC); CFO of Aspen Technology; president and CEO of Corechange, Inc. (acquired by Open Text Corp.); and CFO of Informix Software (acquired by IBM). He has also served in financial executive positions at Stratus Computer, Prime Computer, and Deloitte.Throughout his career, Kane has been involved in developing and executing sophisticated financial strategies in globalizing corporations and mergers and acquisitions. He is a frequent speaker and writer on these topics, as well as other international financial topics and social entrepreneurial ventures. Kane is the audit chairman on the boards of Progress Software (PRGS); Carbonite (CARB); Demandware (DWRE); RealPage (RP); and Photobox LTD.He also served on the Boards of Applix (acquired by IBM); Borland Software (acquired by Micro Focus LTD; and Netezza Corp (acquired by IBM). Kane is also on the Board and a founding member of the Hult Global Challenge which is now part of the Clinton Global Initiative. He is a certified public accountant and has taught international finance at the business schools of Boston College and Babson College. Kane is the coauthor of the book Learning to Change the Worldthe Social Impact of One Laptop per Child.Kane holds a BBA in accounting from the University of Notre Dame and an MBA in international finance from Babson College. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Is Hillary Clintons free college tuition plan feasible? Three faculty experts parse the details of the Democratic nominees education proposal. Aug 4, 2016 Read Article Media Highlights Source: BBC News US and China sign deal to ease trade war Jan 15, 2020 Faculty: Charles Kane Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) Amazon HQ2 splits in twofor good reason Nov 8, 2018 Faculty: Charles Kane The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
