Mohammad Mehdi Fazel Zarandi | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Mohammad Mehdi Fazel Zarandi curriculum vitae Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch fazel@mit.edu (617) 324-6708 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/mzarandi/ Title Senior Lecturer, Operations Research and Statistics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Mohammad FazelZarandi is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His research interests are in the areas of public sector operations, data-driven decision making, statistical learning, and applied probabilistic modeling and statistics.His current research focuses on the use of operations techniques to improve decision-making in the public policy domain. Some of the topics he studies include immigration policy and fairness in public systems.Mohammad's research has been reported by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The New York Times, Bloomberg, and many other major media outlets.Before joining MIT, Mohammad was a Postdoctoral Associate and Lecturer at the Yale School of Management. He received his PhD from the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto in operations management and his MS in industrial engineering, also from the University of Toronto. Publications "Approximating the First-Come, First-Served Stochastic Matching Model with Ohm's Law." Fazel-Zarandi, Mohammad, and Edward H. Kaplan. Operations Reseach. Forthcoming. "The Number of Undocumented Immigrants in the United States: Estimates Based on Demographic Modeling with Data from 1990-2016." Fazel-Zarandi, Mohammad, Edward H. Kaplan, and Jonathan S. Feinstein. PLOS ONE. Forthcoming. "Truthful Cheap Talk: Why Operational Flexibility May Lead to Truthful Communication." Berman, Oded, Mohammad Fazel-Zarandi, and Dmitry Krass. Management Science Vol. 65, No. 4 (2019): 1624-1641. "Solving a Stochastic Facility Location/Fleet Management Problem with Logic-Based Benders' Decomposition." Fazel-Zarandi, Mohammad, Oded Berman, and J. Christopher Beck. IIE Transactions Vol. 45, No. 8 (2012): 896-911. "Using Logic-Based Benders Decomposition to Solve the Capacity- and Distance-Constrained Plant Location Problem." Fazel-Zarandi, Mohammad, and J. Christopher Beck. INFORMS Journal on Computing Vol. 24, No. 3 (2012): 387-398. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 8 steps to a stronger cybersecurity strategy Use this framework to limit operational damage and monetary losses. Nov 7, 2018 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Undocumented immigrant population roughly double current estimate New research shows the population could have been mismeasured for decades. Sep 21, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The Hill Prior estimates of undocumented immigrants in the US were way off Oct 26, 2018 Faculty: Mohammad Mehdi Fazel Zarandi The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
