Barbara Dyer | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Barbara Dyer Support Staff Lisa Barone (617) 324-7626 lbarone@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-321 bdyer@mit.edu (617) 715-4846 Title Senior Lecturer, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Good Companies, Good Jobs Barbara Dyer is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management and Executive Director of the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan School. Dyer focuses her attention at the intersection of people, profit, and technology. As Executive Director of the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative within Sloans Institute for Work and Employment Research (IWER), Dyer is working to facilitate the cross-fertilization of ideas about making work work for everyone in the 21st century.Prior to joining the MIT faculty, Dyer was president and CEO of The Hitachi Foundation. Under her leadership, the Foundation was an influential force in bringing focus to the role of business in society. She was instrumental in shaping major national collaborative philanthropic initiatives that received high honors proffered by the Council on Foundations, including the Critical Impact and the Distinguished Grantmaker awards.Dyers extensive career in public policy included serving as special assistant to the Secretary of the United States Department of the Interior; director of policy studies with the Council of Governors Policy Advisors; an affiliate of the National Governors Association; deputy executive director of the Western Regional Office of the Council of State Governments; and founding director of the National Academy of Public Administrations Alliance for Redesigning Government. Earlier in her career she served as executive director of a community nonprofit organization in Alameda County, California, and helped to launch an experimental school within a public high school as a teacher in Worcester, Massachusetts.Dyer has been a trustee of Clark University and was a member the American University School of Public Affairs Deans Advisory Council. She also cofounded and was the first chair of the National Fund for Workforce Solutions. She is a graduate of Clark University and the John F. Kennedy School of Governments Program for Senior Executives in State and Local Government. Honors Dyer wins Aspen Institute Award Barbara Dyer, senior lecturer, is one of several faculty members at MIT Sloan who have won the 2019 Ideas Worth Teaching Award from The Aspen Institutes Business & Society Program. The other MIT Sloan winners are Leigh Hafrey, Christine Kelly, and Thomas Kochan. This award recognizes 10 exceptional courses, and honors faculty who are redefining business education, providing learning experiences that equip managers of tomorrow with the context, skills, and decision-making capabilities needed to lead in an increasingly complex business environment and world.The award celebrates innovative teaching that challenges conventional thinking and tests new approaches to divisive issues, rethinking the path forward for business and society and preparing students to make business decisions that create both financial and social value. The winning course, 15.S02 Bridging the American Divides: Work Community and Culture USA Lab, is MIT Sloans U.S.-focused Action Learning Lab, developed by the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan in partnership with the MIT Mens et Manus America Initiative and MIT Sloan Action Learning. Read More Publications "Did You Feel the Ground Shake on July 22?" Dyer, Barbara. Did You Feel the Ground Shake on July 22?. July 2014. "SOURCE: Helping Social Entrepreneurs Help Low Income Families." Dyer, Barbara and Devin Thorpe. Forbes, May 2014. "Entrepreneurs and Investors at the Intersection of People & Profit." Dyer, Barbara. Entrepreneurs and Investors at the Intersection of People & Profit. April 2014. "Philanthropic Innovations for Workforce Impact: The National Fund for Workforce Solutions, 2003-2013." Dyer, Barbara, Robert P. Giloth, Richard Kazis, and Marlene Seltzer. In Connecting People to Work: Workforce Intermediaries and Sector Strategies, 87-112. New York, NY: The Aspen Institute, 2014. "Great Companies, Great Jobs." Dyer, Barbara. Great Companies, Great Jobs. April 2014. "The Role of Business in Society." Dyer, Barbara. The Hitachi Foundation, April 2014. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Whats behind Amazons wage hike? The retail and warehousing giant raised its minimum pay to $15 per hour. Oct 4, 2018 Read Article Press MIT Sloan School of Management launches USA Lab: Students to work with community groups to foster economic prosperity in rural regions USA Lab is available to MIT Sloan students and graduate students from across the broader MIT campus. Mar 15, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Boston Review Six labor policies we need now Sep 4, 2020 "...we are seeing in many of our students a new determination to help shape a fairer, more equitable, and sustainable business world. Faculty: Erin Kelly Emilio J. Castilla Thomas Kochan Barbara Dyer Paul Osterman Nathan Wilmers Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) What we owe essential workers May 1, 2020 Dyer and Kochan write: We need to commit to protecting and caring for essential workers and their families in both the short and the long run." Faculty: Barbara Dyer Thomas Kochan Source: The Aspen Institute (Opinion Piece) Giving a voice and support to American workers Apr 15, 2020 MIT Sloan's Barbara Dyer & Thomas Kochan: "We have only begun to see the devastating effects of COVID-19 on people's lives and livelihoods." Faculty: Barbara Dyer Thomas Kochan Paul Osterman Source: Inc. The 10 most forward-thinking business courses of 2019 Dec 9, 2019 Faculty: Barbara Dyer Leigh Hafrey Christine Kelly Thomas Kochan Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
