Christian Catalini | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Christian Catalini twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Stephanie Taverna (617) 253-2676 staverna@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-480 catalini@mit.edu (617) 253-6727 http://www.catalini.com Title Associate Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Christian Catalini is an Associate Professor of Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Christian's main areas of interest are the economics of digitization, entrepreneurship, and science. His research focuses on blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies, the economics of equity crowdfunding and startup growth, and the economics of scientific collaboration.Christian is one of the principal investigators of the MIT Digital Currencies Research Study, which gave access to all MIT undergraduate students to Bitcoin in the fall of 2014. He is also part of the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy and the recently launched Digital Currency Initiative.His work has been featured in Nature, Science, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Economist, WIRED, NPR, Forbes, Bloomberg, TechCrunch, the Chicago Tribune, The Boston Globe, and VICE news among others.Christian has presented his research at a variety of institutions including Harvard University, MIT, Yale University, London Business School, New York University, UC, Berkeley, the Federal Reserve Bank, the US Treasury, the World Bank, and the White House OSTP.In 2009-10, Christian was a visiting student at Harvard University. He holds a PhD from theRotman School of Management, University of Toronto, and MSc (summa cum laude) in economics and management of new technologies from Bocconi University, Milan. Honors NBER appoints Catalini as a Faculty Research Fellow The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) has recently appointed four MIT Sloan faculty members as Faculty Research Fellows, including Christian Catalini, who has been appointed a fellow in the Productivity, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship program. Namrata Kala, Christopher Palmer, and Claudia Steinwender were also appointed as fellows. The NBER is the nations leading nonprofit economic research organization, whose affiliates have included 27 Nobel Prize winners and 13 past chairs of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers. While the NBER remains impartial and does not make public policy recommendations, NBER research findings are disseminated among academics, public policy makers, and business professionals, bringing critical information to many important public policy debates. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "When Early Adopters Don't Adopt." Catalini, Christian, and Catherine Tucker. Science Vol. 357, No. 6347 (2017): 135-136. Featured Publication "Microgeography and the Direction of Inventive Activity." Catalini, Christian. Management Science Vol. 64, No. 9 (2018): 3971-3973. "Antitrust and Costless Verification: An Optimistic and a Pessimistic View of the Implications of Blockchain Technology." Catalini, Christian, and Catherine Tucker. Antitrust Law Journal. Forthcoming. "How Do Travel Costs Shape Collaboration?" Catalini, Christian, Christian Fons-Rosen, and Patrick Gaul. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Some Simple Economics of the Blockchain." Catalini, Christian, and Joshua Gans. Communications of the ACM. Forthcoming. "Moving Towards Permissionless Consensus." Shehar Bano, Christian Catalini, George Danezis, Nick Doudchenko, Ben Maurer, Alberto Sonnino, and Nils Wernerfelt. Cambridge, MA: August 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 2019, illustrated Six illustrations and photos we loved this year. Dec 2, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Libra co-creator explains, defends Facebooks cryptocurrency MIT Sloans Christian Catalini said Facebook will keep financial and social data separate. Nov 13, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Computerworld Facebook's Libra co-creator: Social, financial data will remain separate Nov 11, 2019 Faculty: Christian Catalini Michael A. Cusumano Source: BostInno Here are two startup success predictors, according to MIT research Aug 19, 2019 Faculty: Christian Catalini Scott Stern Source: TechCrunch Facebook answers how Libra taxes and anti-fraud will work Jul 12, 2019 Faculty: Christian Catalini Source: The Wall Street Journal Facebook's Libra could give dollar, banks some welcome competition Jun 26, 2019 Faculty: Christian Catalini Roberto Rigobon The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
