Duncan Simester | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Duncan Simester curriculum vitae Support Staff Briana Blake (617) 324-4095 brianabl@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-542 simester@mit.edu (617) 258-0679 (617) 258-7597 Title NTU Professor of Marketing Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Duncan Simester is a professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he holds the NTU Chair in Management Science. He is an expert on how economics and artificial intelligence can contribute to the understanding and practice of marketing and strategy. His work is widely published in the academic literature. The studies rely heavily on industry participation, and often include large-scale field experiments conducted with cooperating firms. Simester regularly consults with a variety of organizations on topics related to marketing strategy, go-to-market strategies, and the use of artificial intelligence and experiments to improve business decisions.Prior to joining the faculty at MIT, Duncan was a professor at the University of Chicagos Graduate School of Business. He is also a qualified lawyer and member of the bar in his native New Zealand.Duncan holds a PhD from MIT. Honors Simester and Tucker win AMA award Duncan Simester and Catherine Tucker have won the 2020 Weitz-Winer-ODell Award from the American Marketing Association.This award recognizes a Journal of Marketing Research article published five years earlier that has made the most significant, long-term contribution to marketing theory, methodology, and/or practice. Their winning paper, Harbingers of Failure (Journal of Marketing Research, Vol. 52, No. 5, October 2015), was co-authored with Song Lin (HKUST Business School), who was an MIT Sloan PhD student when the paper was written (PhD 2015), and Eric Anderson (Kellogg School of Management), who also obtained his PhD at MIT Sloan (in 1995). Read More Publications Featured Publication "Harbingers of Failure." Anderson, Eric, Song Lin, Duncan Simester and Catherine Tucker. Journal of Marketing Research Vol. 52, No. 5 (2015): 580-592. Appendix. Featured Publication "Informational Rigidities and the Stickiness of Temporary Sales." Anderson, Eric, Benjamin A. Malin, Emi Nakamura, Duncan Simester, and Jn Steinsson. Journal of Monetary Economics Vol. 90, No. 1 (2017): 64-83. "Introduction to the Special Issue on Marketing Science and Field Experiments." Nelson, Leif, Duncan Simester, and K. Sudhir. Marketing Science. Forthcoming. "Efficiently Evaluating Targeting Policies: Improving Upon Champion vs. Challenger Experiments." Simester, Duncan, Artem Timoshenko, and Spyros Zoumpoulis. Management Science Vol. 66, No. 8 (2020): 3295-3798. "Targeting Prospective Customers: Robustness of Machine Learning Methods to Typical Data Challenges." Simester, Duncan, Artem Timoshenko, and Spyros I. Zoumpoulis. Management Science Vol. 66, No. 6 (2020): 2291-2799. "The Surprising Breadth of the Harbingers of Failure." Simester, Duncan, Catherine Tucker, and Clair Yang. Journal of Marketing Research Vol. 56, No. 6 (2019): 1034-1049. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Four marketing lessons from the sad fate of Crystal Pepsi Are the wrong people buying your new product? How to avoid harbingers of failure. Apr 20, 2016 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The New York Times Opinion: Are you an anti-influencer? Mar 5, 2020 Faculty: Duncan Simester Catherine Tucker Source: Financial Times Why my bad taste is the kiss of death Jan 17, 2020 Faculty: Duncan Simester Catherine Tucker Eric Arthur von Hippel Source: MIT Sloan Management Review Twelve essential leadership insights Jul 31, 2019 Faculty: Nelson P. Repenning Donald Kieffer Duncan Simester Staff: Allyson MacDonald The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
