Anne Quaadgras | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Anne Quaadgras linkedin Get in Touch Building E62-490 aquaad@mit.edu (617) 715-5714 Title Senior Lecturer, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Sloan Health Systems Initiative Anne Quaadgras is the Director of the MIT Sloan Health Systems Initiative and a Senior Lecturer at MIT Sloan.Her work focuses on health systems transformation, and the role of information technology in supporting that change.Prior to her doctoral work, Anne was a management consultant for fifteen years, specializing in improving decision-making and investment processes in the chemical, pharmaceutical, and financial services industries.She holds a Bachelors and Masters degree in chemical engineering from MIT. Anne earned her doctorate in information systems at Boston University, where her dissertation research explored how globally distributed groups of experts recognize and respond to operational problems. Publications Featured Publication "You May Not Need Big Data After All." Ross, Jeanne W., Cynthia M. Beath, and Anne Quaadgras. Harvard Business Review, December 2013. Featured Publication "Building a Better USMC Psychological Health System: Coordination Analysis and Design Recommendations." Quaadgras, Anne, Amy Glasmeier, and Ken Kaplan, Working Paper. 2016. Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan announces collaboration with Staten Island PPS to drive change in healthcare MIT Sloan School of Managements Initiative for Health Systems Innovation (HSI) recently announced a formal collaboration with the Staten Island Performing Provider System (SI PPS). Feb 12, 2019 Read Article Press MIT Sloan School of Managements Healthcare Lab focuses on transforming the industry Enrollment in action learning course increased by 45% Mar 16, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Staten Island Advance Tracking Island drug abuse aimed at new intervention strategies and tack... Jul 1, 2019 Faculty: Anne Quaadgras Source: MetroFocus A handle on heroin Mar 20, 2019 Faculty: Anne Quaadgras Source: Crain's New York Business (Subscription Required) MIT, Staten Island PPS collaborate to address the opioid crisis Feb 20, 2019 Faculty: Anne Quaadgras The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
