Arnold I. Barnett | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Arnold I. Barnett curriculum vitae Support Staff Naomi Stephen (617) 324-7328 nstephen@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-568 abarnett@mit.edu (617) 253-2670 (617) 258-7579 Title George Eastman Professor of Management Science Professor of Statistics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Arnold Barnett is the George Eastman Professor of Management Scienceand a Professor of Statistics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research specialty is applied mathematical modeling with a focus on problems of health and safety. Barnetts early work on homicide was presented to President Gerald Ford at the White House, and his analysis of U.S. casualties in Vietnam was the subject of a column by William F. Buckley.Barnett has written op-ed pieces for The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, theBoston Globe, CNN Opinion, the Charlotte Observer, and USA Today. He received the Presidents Award and the Expository Writing Award from INFORMS in 1996 and in 2001, and is a Fellow of INFORMS. Cited as the nations leading expert on aviation safety, Barnett was recognized with the 2002 Presidents Citation from the Flight Safety Foundation for truly outstanding contributions on behalf of safety. MIT Sloan students have honored him on 14 occasions for outstanding teaching.Barnett holds a BA in mathematics from Columbia College and a PhD in mathematics from MIT. Honors Barnett wins Jamieson Prize Arnie Barnett and Adrien Verdelhan were each awarded the 2016Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications SSRN "Covid-19 Risk Among Airline Passengers: Should the Middle Seat Stay Empty?" Barnett, Arnold, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6160-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2020. "Aviation Safety: A Whole New World?" Barnett, Arnold. Transportation Science Vol. 54, No. 1 (2020): 84-96. "When Boeing's 737 MAX Returns to the Skies, It Will Be Flying Full." Barnett, Arnold. Real Clear Markets, January 3, 2020. "The Boeing 737 MAX Crisis: An Opinionated Guide to the Perplexed." Barnett, Arnold. ORMS Today, Viewpoint, October 7, 2019. "Epic Fail? The Polls and the 2016 Presidential Election." Barnett, Arnold I. Chance Vol. 31, No. 4 (2018): 408. Chance. Applied Probability: Models and Intuition. Barnett, Arnold I. Charlestown, MA: Dynamic Ideas Press LLC, 2015. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Empty middle seats make flying safer during COVID-19 How safe is flying during the COVID-19 pandemic? A study shows the risk of getting sick on a flight is higher when all seats are filled. Aug 19, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The New York Times Help! Where is the safest seat on an airplane? Nov 11, 2020 Prof. Arnold Barnett discusses the effect of keeping middle seats open on the likelihood of getting sick. Faculty: Arnold I. Barnett Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) The real coronavirus risk on airlines Nov 3, 2020 "Some American airlines have upped the ante in describing how safe it is to fly during the pandemic...their assertions are highly exaggerated. Faculty: Arnold I. Barnett Source: The New York Times 5 things we know about flying right now Aug 20, 2020 The question of whether a middle seat left open would improve a passengers odds of not getting sick compelled Arnold Barnett. Faculty: Arnold I. Barnett Source: Cond Nast Traveler Experts say this is the safest mode of transportation during COVID-19 Aug 6, 2020 [Prof. Arnold] Barnett...expanded his analysis of airline empty middle seats by formulating a statistical study on traveling by car. Faculty: Arnold I. Barnett Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
