Christopher F. Noe | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Christopher F. Noe linkedin curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building E62-681 chrisnoe@mit.edu (617) 253-4903 (617) 253-0603 Title Senior Lecturer, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Christopher Noe is a Senior Lecturer in Accounting at the Sloan School of Management. Noe specializes in the fields of financial accounting and corporate finance. Immediately prior to joining the faculty at MIT Sloan, Noe was a vice president at Charles River Associates, an economics consulting firm. His work at CRA included valuation of business enterprises, financial securities, and specific assets/liabilities; financial statement analysis; examination of accounting restatements; solvency assessment; and damages estimation. Noe has published on topics such as voluntary disclosures and insider transactions, analyst specialization and stock breakups, and stock return volatility. Noe holds a BA in economics from Emory University, an MS in applied economics and a PhD in business administration from the University of Rochester. Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Microsofts aQuantive Acquisition." Gwen Yu, Christopher Noe, Joseph Weber, and Thomas Samuelson. In Harvard Business School Case #9-115-039, Cambridge, MA: March 2015. "For Profit Higher Education: University of Phoenix." Gwen Yu, Christopher Noe, Joseph Weber, and Judy McLellan. In Harvard Business School Case 9-114-024, Cambridge, MA: August 2013. "How do Investors Interpret Announcements of Earnings Delays?" Duarte-Silva, Tiago, Huijing Fu, Christopher F. Noe, and K. Ramesh. Journal of Applied Corporate Finance Vol. 25, No. 1 (2013): 66-73. "The Sale of the Washington Redskins: Discounted Cash Flow Valuation of S-Corporations, Treatment of Personal Taxes, and Implications for Litigation." Fisher, Franklin, Christopher Noe, and Evan Sue Schouten. Stanford Journal of Law, Business, & Finance Vol. 18, (2005): 18-30. "Analyst Specialization and Conglomerate Stock Breakups." Gilson, Stuart C., Paul M. Healy, Christopher Noe, and Krishna G. Palepu. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 39, No. 3 (2001): 565-582. "Bausch & Lomb, Inc. (A)." Gregory Miller and Christopher Noe. In Harvard Business School Case 9-101-010, Cambridge, MA: August 2000. Load More Media Highlights Source: Clear Admit A day in the life at MIT Sloan Oct 25, 2019 Faculty: John L. Akula Arnold I. Barnett Christopher F. Noe Haoxiang Zhu Louis Anthony Rodriques Source: Poets & Quants 2019 MBAs To Watch: Faina Rozental, MIT Sloan May 10, 2019 Faculty: Adrien Verdelhan Christopher F. Noe The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
