John M. Reilly | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John M. Reilly linkedin Get in Touch Building E19-429L jreilly@mit.edu (617) 460-3777 (617) 253-9845 Title Senior Lecturer and Co-Director of the Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups System Dynamics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research John Reilly is the co-director of the Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change, and a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.An energy, environmental, and agricultural economist, Reilly focuses on understanding the role of human activities as a contributor to global environmental change and the effects of environmental change on society and the economy. A key element of his work is the integration of economic models of the global economy as it represents human activity with models of biophysical systems, including the ocean, atmosphere, and terrestrial vegetation. By understanding the complex interactions of human society with our planet, the goal is to aid in the design of policies that can effectively limit the contribution of human activity to environmental change, to facilitate adaptation to unavoidable change, and to understand the consequences of the deployment of large-scale energy systems that will be needed to meet growing energy needs.Reilly holds a BS in economics and political science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison as well as an MS and a PhD in economics from the University of Pennsylvania. Publications SSRN Featured Publication "The Impact of Water Scarcity on Food, Bioenergy and Deforestation." Winchester, Niven, Kirby Ledvina, Kenneth Strzepek, and John M. Reilly. The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics Vol. 62, No. 3 (2018): 327-351. Featured Publication "Exploring the Impacts of a National U.S. CO2 Tax and Revenue Recycling Options with a Coupled Electricity-Economy Model." Caron, Justin, Stuart M. Cohen, Maxwell Brown, and John M. Reilly. Climate Change Economics Vol. 9, No. 1 (2018): 1-40. Media Highlights Source: Fortune (Opinion Piece) This is what the Green New Deal needs to actually work Jan 23, 2019 Faculty: John M. Reilly The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
