John C. Grant | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John C. Grant Support Staff Sumaiya Rahman Haddad (617) 253-6679 sumaiyar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-317 jcgrant@mit.edu (617) 324-4373 Title Senior Lecturer, International Action Learning Programs (G-Lab, China/India Lab, GO-Lab) About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences John Grant is a Senior Lecturer in Global Economics and Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His focus is the intersection of the domains of strategy, entrepreneurship, and strategic management. His work at MIT Sloan supports the experiential learning objectives of MBA students through project engagements with entrepreneurial organizations, particularly in emerging markets.As a practitioner faculty in Action Learning at MIT Sloan, John is a teaching team member in courses involving Global Organizations, Entrepreneurship in Emerging Economies, Urban Technology for Future Cities in China, and the Economy and Business of Modern China and India. John also directs an Action Learning internship program in Thailand in collaboration with the Sasin School of Management in Bangkok.Johns management career was in strategy consulting. As a consulting partner he worked with complex, multinational organizations on global strategy and management challenges. His experience includes engagements on six continents, managing consulting practices in Europe, Asia and the Americas. He also has been a member of startup teams for early stage ventures in healthcare, energy services, and biopharmaceuticals, acting in chief operating or chief financial officer roles.John holds a BS in applied mathematics from the University of Washington and a SM in management from the MIT Sloan School of Management. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
