Donald Sull | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Donald Sull twitter linkedin Support Staff Judith Graham-Robey (617) 253-6680 jgrobey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-469 dsull@mit.edu (617) 324-4075 http://www.donsull.com/ Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Donald Sull is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Sull is a global authority on executing strategy in volatile markets, and teaches courses on strategy formation and implementation at MIT Sloan. He has been identified as a leading management thinker by The Economist, the Financial Times, and Fortune which named him among the ten new management gurus to know. The Economist listed his theory of active inertia among the ideas that shaped business management over the past century.He has published six books, including Simple Rules (with Kathy Eisenhardt, 2015),The Upside of Turbulence (2009), andWhy Good Companies Go Bad. Sull has also written over 100 book chapters, case studies, and articles, including several bestselling Harvard Business Review articles.Sull has regularly consults with large companies including Mars, Oracle, PIMCO, Royal Bank of Canada, Emirates Airline, Baker & McKenzie, Burberry, and The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Sull is the Chairman ofFilm-Fish which uses a proprietary machine learning algorithm to recommend what TV show or movie to watch next.Prior to academia, he worked as a consultant with McKinsey & Company, and as a management-investor with the leveraged buyout firm Clayton & Dubilier on the Uniroyal-Goodrich Tire Company deal.Sull has taught entrepreneurship at the Harvard Business School and strategy at the London Business School, winning teaching awards at both schools.Sull received his AB, MBA, and doctorate from Harvard University. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Cover Article: Why Strategy Execution Unravelsand What to Do About It." Sull, Donald, Rebecca Homkes and Charles Sull. Harvard Business Review, March 2015. Featured Publication "When It Comes to Culture, Does Your Company Walk the Talk?" Sull, Donald, Stefano Turconi, and Charles Sull. MIT Sloan Management Review, July 21, 2020. "COVID-19 and Corporate Culture." Sull, Donald, and Charles Sull. MIT Sloan Management Review, Forthcoming. "Culture 500: Introducing the 2020 Culture Champions." Sull, Donald, and Charles Sull. MIT Sloan Management Review, October 13, 2020. "Five Ways Leaders Can Support Remote Work." Sull, Donald, Charles Sull, and Josh Bersin. MIT Sloan Management Review, June 3, 2020. "The Close Relationship Between Management Practices and Corporate Culture." Sull, Donald, Hyo Kang, and Neil Thompson, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5887-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 6 insights on managing through crisis Work with remote work, facilitate peer-to-peer communication, confront supply chain shortfalls, and more. Jul 27, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Case study takes up Tesla entry into the auto industry Exploring the forces reshaping the market and how Elon Musks company could upend automakers. May 13, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) How companies are winning on culture during COVID-19 Oct 27, 2020 "At first glance, you might expect COVID-19 to be a disaster for corporate culture." Faculty: Donald Sull Source: BlogTalkRadio (Audio) HRExaminer executive conversations with Don Sull, CultureX Oct 18, 2019 Faculty: Donald Sull Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Why company culture matters for strategic results Jul 10, 2019 Faculty: Donald Sull Source: MIT Sloan Management Review Measuring culture in leading companies Jun 24, 2019 Faculty: Donald Sull The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
