Bengt Holmstrom | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Bengt Holmstrom Get in Touch Building E52-520 bengt@mit.edu (617) 253-0506 (617) 253-1330 Title Paul A. Samuelson Professor of Economics Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Bengt Holmstrom is the Paul A. Samuelson Professor of Economics at MIT, where he also was head of the Economics Department from 2003-2006. He holds a joint appointment with MITs Sloan School of Management. Holmstrom is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Econometric Society, and an elected foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and the Finnish Academy of Sciences and Letters. He is a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, a member of the executive committee for the Center of Economic Policy Research, and past president of the Econometric Society.Holmstrom received the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in memory of Alfred Nobel in 2016. He was awarded the Banque de France-TSE Senior Prize in Monetary Economics and Finance in 2012. He holds honorary degrees from the University of Vaasa, Finland; Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden, and the Hanken School of Economics, Finland.Holmstrom is a board member of the Aalto University Foundation, and a former board member of the Nokia Corporation. He is a Research Associate of NBER. In 2011, he was the President of the Econometric Society.Holmstrom received his doctorate degree from Stanford University. He has served as an Associate Professor at the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University and as the Edwin J. Beinecke Professor of Management at Yale Universitys School of Management. Honors Bengt Holmstrm wins 2016 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences MIT Sloan Professor Bengt Holmstrm has won the 2016 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. Holmstrm, the Paul A. Samuelson Professor of Economics, was named winner of the award along with Oliver Hart, a professor and economist at Harvard University. The Swedish Academy cited Holmstrm and Hart for their contributions to contract theory. Calling his work pathbreaking, Holmstroms colleagues are lauding the decision by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. Holmstrom has held a joint appointment with MIT Sloan and the MIT Department of Economics since 1994. Read More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter In Nobel Prize lecture, lessons for managing employee incentives MITs newest Nobel laureate, Bengt Holmstrm, discusses challenges and opportunities offered by contract theory. Dec 9, 2016 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Economist Bengt Holmstrms Nobel Prize win delights MIT colleagues Faculty members cite his transformative work on contract theory. Oct 11, 2016 Read Article Media Highlights Source: London School of Economics - LSE Business Review How leading economists view antitrust in the digital economy Nov 18, 2020 US and European experts discuss internet giants, and Google's dominance of search and operating practices. Faculty: Bengt Holmstrom Richard Schmalensee Daron Acemoglu Source: The Hindu (India) An open letter from scientists across the globe calling for use of fabri... May 14, 2020 Professors Bengt Holmstrm and Erik Brynjolfsson are signatories. Faculty: Bengt Holmstrom Source: Centre for Economic Policy Research | VoxEU Letter to governments of the G20 nations Apr 7, 2020 Faculty: Bengt Holmstrom Source: Business Insider 19 times 'The Simpsons' accurately predicted the future Feb 3, 2020 Faculty: Bengt Holmstrom The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
