Daena Giardella | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Daena Giardella Support Staff Ryan Harrington (617) 715-5675 ryanharr@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-427 daenag@mit.edu (617) 924-9596 http://www.daenagiardella.com Title Senior Lecturer, MIT Leadership Center 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Daena Giardella is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management and a Faculty Affiliate of the MIT Leadership Center.She has been an organizational leadership consultant and executive coach as well as a media, communication, and presentation consultant for over twenty-five years. At MIT Sloan she teaches the course Improvisational Leadership as well as numerous workshops for the Sloan Intensive Period (SIP), and the Sloan Fellows MBA and Executive MBA programs. She also teaches in the MIT Sloan Executive Education programs. Her areas of expertise include helping leaders effectively navigate difficult conversations, constructively frame conflict, and lead diverse teams that foster innovation. She teaches numerous interactive skills-based workshops and training programs where leaders learn how to respond proactively to implicit or unconscious bias, sexual harassment, and bullying by enacting improvised scenarios. She frequently speaks on topics related to women and leadership in business.Daena has taught seminars for the MIT Sloan Global Programs Latin America Office in Chile and Argentina at numerous business and academic settings, including Catolica University in Santiago and Di Tella University in Buenos Aires, as well as at the American Chamber of Commerce in Chile. Daena was a visiting faculty member for seven years at The Lisbon MBA program in Portugal, in partnership with MIT Sloan Global Programs. She has also taught Negotiation Improvisation for members of the European Commission in Brussels in collaboration with the Paris ESSEC Business School and Harvard Law School faculty. She has been a regular consultant for Harvard Law Schools Negotiation program, and she taught a Skills Practicum for the Entrepreneurial Teacher at Babson Colleges Symposia for Entrepreneurship Educators.Daena has enjoyed dual careers in business organizational development and in the performing arts. She combines these backgrounds to design innovative educational programs for numerous world-class companies, organizations, and academic institutions in the USA and abroad. Her highly experiential programs incorporate her Improvisation and Influence Model , which cultivates dynamic leadership, adaptability, presence, emotional intelligence, and collaborative communication skills. Her consulting clients include organizations, executives, and managers in the financial services, telecommunications, technology, energy, hospitality, retail, fashion, real estate, manufacturing, entertainment, engineering, legal services, and health care industries.Daena is also an actor, director, and member of SAG-AFTRA (Screen Actors Guild & American Federation of Radio and Television Artists). Her numerous original one-woman theater performances have received kudos in the USA and internationally. The Boston Globe has called her an "impressive talent" and the Tel Aviv Haeer wrote, "Giardella is a phenomenon...a classic actress."Daena was formerly a faculty member at Emerson College and Boston Conservatory. She collaborated with David Kantor (creator of the 4-Player Model) for eleven years in the creation of TheraVision, a role-play/video-based training program for psychotherapists at the Kantor Family Institute. She was the director and teacher of a theater program for at-risk students at Roxbury High School under a grant from Harvard University, and she has led diversity and anti-bullying workshops in many educational settings, including the New Mexico Human Rights Foundation.She is coauthor of the book, Changing Patterns: Discovering the Fabric of Your Creativity and she recorded the spoken word CD, Improvisation in Everyday Life. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How leaders can manage their own inner critic Lessons on identifying and overcoming your inner critic, and helping others do the same. Feb 25, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter To fix a toxic work culture, empower bystanders Allowing toxic behavior free reign in your organization sets unwanted norms. With training, workers on the front line can help break that cycle. May 20, 2019 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Quartz What to do when an employee reports sexual harassment May 8, 2018 Faculty: Daena Giardella Source: The Boston Globe How business schools are teaching students about workplace harassment May 3, 2018 Faculty: Daena Giardella Source: MIT Sloan Executive Education Daena Giardella: Business leaders need sensemaking under Trump Sep 18, 2017 Faculty: Daena Giardella Source: MIT Sloan Experts (video) Business leaders need sensemaking under Trump May 18, 2017 Faculty: Daena Giardella Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
