Henry B. Weil | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Henry B. Weil Support Staff Lena Ngor (617) 253-3831 lngor@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-423 hbweil@mit.edu (617) 258-6101 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Henry Weil is a Senior Lecturer of Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Weil served as president and chief executive officer of Cambridge-based management consulting firm Pugh-Roberts Associates before bringing his considerable knowledge of corporate strategy in technology industries to MIT Sloan. He is particularly expert in telecommunications, financial services, transportation, energy, and the media. His research delves into the effects of management policies, technological developments, industry structure, and regulation on corporate competitiveness and market behavior. Weil is currently looking at the commoditization of air transportation, telecommunications services, and refined petroleum products. He uses computer simulation modeling to analyze the dynamics of market development, competition, and long-term profitability. Weil holds an SB and an SM in management from MIT. Publications "Energy Capabilities." Weil, Henry Birdseye, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6168-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2019. "Intelligent Energy." Weil, Henry B., MIT Sloan Working Paper 6161-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2019. "Energy as a Service." Weil, Henry Birdseye, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6153-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2018. "Dynamics of Social Factors in Technological Substitution." Datte, Brice and Henry B. Weil. Technological Forecasting & Social Change Vol. 74, No. 5 (2007): 579-607. "The Dynamics of Innovative Industries." Henry B. Weil and James Milo Utterback. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference of the System Dynamics Society, edited by Jennifer I. Rowe, Joan M. Yanni, John D. Sterman, Nelson P. Repenning, and Robin S. Langer, Boston, MA: July 2005. "Implementing New Educational Technology for the Military." Roberts, Edward B. and Henry B. Weil. Naval War College Review Vol. 23, No. 8 (1971): 22-28. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
