Joseph G. Hadzima | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Joseph G. Hadzima Get in Touch jgh@mit.edu (617) 475-6009 (617) 475-6001 http://joe.hadzima.net Title Senior Lecturer, Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Joseph Hadzima is a Senior Lecturer in the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship. Hadzima works in the areas of entrepreneurship, startup phase companies, business plans, venture capital, corporate governance, and intellectual property strategy. He has been involved in the founding of more than 100 companies as a founder, investor, director, legal counsel, or employee, and has advised entrepreneurs, high-growth businesses, and venture capitalists. Hadzima is a founding judge of the MIT $10K Entrepreneurship Competition (now the MIT $100K Entrepreneurship Competition), and has taught the popular IAP course, Nuts and Bolts of Business Plans since 1989. He is a frequent speaker for the MIT Enterprise Forums Satellite Broadcast Series (SBS), including programs on company valuation and structuring venture capital deals. Hadzima is the managing director of Main Street Partners LLC, a venture development and technology commercialization firm, as well as the president of its portfolio company, IPVision, Inc., an intellectual property management, systems, and services firm. He was a director of the Global MIT Enterprise Forum for over 25 years and was its chairman of the board for four years. Hadzima practiced law for 17 years, first at Ropes & Gray in Boston and then at Sullivan & Worcester as founder and director of the High-Tech/New Ventures Group. He is a former director of the New England chapter of the National Association of Corporate Directors and of several private and public companies. His Starting Up column appeared regularly in the Boston Business Journal. A member of the MIT Venture Mentoring Service, he has advised federal and state government agencies, universities, and nonprofits on the creation and support of entrepreneurial ecosystems to create economic growth. He is the recipient of the MIT Bronze Beaver Award, the highest MIT alumni award, for his work in entrepreneurship. He was the second recipient of the Adolf F. Monosson Prize for Entrepreneurship Mentoring. Hadzima holds a BSc from MIT, an SM in management from the MIT Sloan School of Management, and a JD from the Harvard Law School. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 trends in venture capital (beyond the pandemic) Change is afoot in venture capital, from machine learning to the impacts of COVID-19. Heres a quick primer on whats happening now. Apr 22, 2020 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
