Scott Keating | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Scott Keating linkedin Get in Touch Building E62-688 skeating@mit.edu (617) 258-8947 (617) 253-0603 Title Senior Lecturer, Accounting About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Scott Keating is a Senior Lecturer in Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Keatings research focuses on understanding the internal workings of large and complex organizations. He is specifically interested in the role of internal accounting practicessuch as accounting-based performance measurement and compensation programs, transfer pricing policies, costing systems, and cost allocation practicesin regulating organizational activities. Keating teaches an undergraduate course in financial accounting and a second-year MBA elective in managerial accounting. Prior to joining MIT Sloan, Keating was on the faculty of the University of Chicago Booth Graduate School of Business and the University of Rochester Simon School of Business, and also taught at the London Business School. He has consulted to and taught at numerous companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Armstrong World Industries, Brooks Brothers, Deutsche Telekom, Procter & Gamble, U.S. Gypsum, and Wal-Mart. Keating holds an LLB and a BSc from McGill University, an MBA from the Tuck School at Dartmouth College, and a DBA from Harvard University. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
