John A. Davis | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John A. Davis Get in Touch davisja@mit.edu (617) 258-7649 Title Senior Lecturer, Family Enterprise Executive Programs 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences John A. Davis is a Senior Lecturer in the Family Enterprise Executive Programs at the MIT Sloan School of Management. He is a globally recognized pioneer and authority on issues related to the family enterprise, family wealth, and the family office. Since the 1970s, he has been a leading researcher, professor, author, advisor, and speaker on family enterprise, and is the creator of some of the fields most impactful conceptual frameworks. His insights help to develop leaders, strengthen families, professionalize businesses and family offices, grow shareholder value, and pass sustainable enterprises to the next generation.A renowned academic and shaper of the family enterprise field, Davis teaches family business and family office management, and strategies for family enterprises to position themselves for the future. His upcoming programs can be foundhere.Trained in management, psychology, and economics, Davis has advised multigenerational family enterprises in more than 65 countries, including a number of the worlds leading enterprising families. He advises on sustaining long-term success; governance; family wealth; family office; ownership strategies; developing next generation talent; succession transitions; life and career planning; conflict resolution and family unity; selling the family business; and adapting to disruptive change, among others. He is founder and chairman of the Cambridge Family Enterprise Group, a global organization he created in 1989 that is devoted to helping enterprising families achieve long-term and lasting success for their families, enterprises, and financial wealth.Davis is an award-winning teacher and researcher, and lifelong creator of innovative education courses and teaching materials. He is on the Advisory Council of the Inclusive Capitalism Programme on Purposeful Ownership at the Said Business School at the University of Oxforda research study that explores current family ownership issues. During his 21 years on the faculty of Harvard Business School, Professor Davis founded and led Harvards family business management area and was founding faculty chair of the Families in Business program. He created and led the MBA course, Management of the Family Business, to explore the management, career, and personal issues found in family-owned companies, and taught family business management and leadership in the Owner/President Management executive program, as well as in other programs and courses.An early founder of the family business field as an academic discipline, Davis has written significant works explaining family enterprise dynamics and success. In 1978, with HBS Professor Renato Tagiuri (now deceased), he co-created the Three-Circle Model of the Family Business System, the fundamental paradigm in the family business field. He developed the Family Enterprise framework to help families map their collection of meaningful activities and assets that unite and define them, and the Family Enterprise Sustainability framework which distills the three essential ingredients needed for the successful longevity of a family enterprise. He is coauthor of the book, Generation to Generation: Life Cycles of the Family Business, a preeminent work. He has published an extensive body of educational materialscase studies, articles, and diagnostic worksheetsthat are used by graduate schools of business across the globe. He is coauthor of the book Next Generation Success and author of Enduring Advantage, 2nd Edition. His theories and observations are regularly cited in publications such as the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Financial Times, Economist, Bloomberg, NPR, Forbes, and Fortune.Davis speaks at conferences and workshops for enterprising families around the world, such as the World Economic Forum, Harvard Business Review, YPO and WPO, Cambridge Institute for Family Enterprise, and Family Business Network, as well as for financial institutions, private member networks, and individual family companies.Davis earned his Doctorate in business administration from Harvard Business School, his MA in economics from the University of Wisconsin, and his AB in economics with high honors from Kenyon College. He tweets @ProfJohnDavis. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How family businesses succeed in an era of rapid change A constantly changing and disruptive environment creates unique threats for family businesses. Here are four ways owners can stay on their toes. Apr 2, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter What to watch when planning a family enterprise succession Guiding principles for an effective handoff in your family enterprise. Feb 27, 2019 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Inside Small Business (Opinion Piece) All in the family Mar 12, 2020 Faculty: John A. Davis Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) What makes a family business last? Feb 5, 2020 Faculty: John A. Davis Source: USA Today What Harry and Meghan can teach us about navigating family and money Jan 15, 2020 Faculty: John A. Davis Source: Fortune Greece 5o Family Business Forum KPMG: ... Apr 15, 2019 Faculty: John A. Davis The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
