Brian P. Halligan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Brian P. Halligan Get in Touch bhalligan@alum.mit.edu Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Brian Halligan is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he teaches 15.392: Designing, Developing, and Launching Successful Products in an Entrepreneurial Environment.He is ceo & co-founder of HubSpot, a CRM company he co-founded fourteen years ago to help businesses grow better.Since its founding, HubSpot has gone public, accumulated over 100,000 customers, and been named the best place to work in the United States, among other things.Brian is author of two books:Marketing Lessons From the Grateful Deadand Inbound Marketing: Get Found Using Google, Social Media, and Blogs, which is in its seventh printing and has sold 50,000 copies. Inbound Marketinghas been translated into nine languages and peaked at #17 overall on the Amazon bestseller list.He holds a BS and an EE from the University of Vermont and an MBA from the MIT Sloan School of Management. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How to build a successful startup culture: Tips from HubSpot CEO Transparency, job mobility part of a deliberate focus on cultivating millennial workforce. Apr 7, 2015 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Fourteen MIT Sloan faculty members to follow on Twitter New Twitter list collects insight and ideas from more than 40 professors, lecturers, and research scientists Feb 19, 2015 Read Article Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Leadership mindsets for the new economy Nov 6, 2019 Faculty: Brian P. Halligan Douglas Ready The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
