Marshall Carter | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Marshall Carter Get in Touch C3AEROMNC@USA.NET Title Senior Lecturer, Work and Organization Studies About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Marshall (Marsh) Carter is currently a Senior Lecturer in leadership and management at the Sloan School, MIT. Babson College, and the Naval War College, Newport, RI. He was a Senior Fellow at the Kennedy School, Harvard University, 2001-2004. His focus is to pass on to younger generations the lessons learned in a 50 year plus career in business, government, and the military.From 2003 to 2013 he was a board member, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and deputy chairman of the parent company NYSE Euronext. He was one of seven executives asked to postpone retirement in 2003 to form a new Board of Directors at the NYSE, and in 2005, was elected chairman.Prior to the Exchange, Carter served as the chairman and chief executive officer of the State Street Bank and Trust Company, Boston, and of its holding company, State Street Corporation. He joined State Street in July 1991, as president and chief operating officer, became CEO in 1992 and chairman in 1993. During his nine years as CEO, the company grew more than six fold. In 1998, Mr. Carter and the bank were awarded the Gartner Groups Excellence in Technology Award for application of technology for business value and business return. State Street is a leading servicer and manager of financial, pension and mutual fund assets worldwide.Prior to joining State Street, Carter was with the Chase Manhattan Bank for 15 years, in executive positions related to finance, product development, operations, regional banking, and global businesses.A former Marine Corps infantry officer who was awarded the Navy Cross, Bronze Star and Purple Heart during two years service in Vietnam, Carter served from 1975-76 as a White House Fellow at the State Department and Agency for International Development. Major projects during that year were the application of satellite technology to agricultural activities in West Africa, the use of high-level U2 photography for disaster relief activities in Guatemala and the use of sensor-surveillance equipment as a member of the project team that installed the U.S. Sinai Surveillance Mission in Israel after the 1973 Middle East War.Carter was chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Boston Medical Center, the primary inner city hospital for Boston from 2001-2009. Long active in industry affairs, he cochaired the U.S. Working Group of Thirty, which developed recommendations for revamping world securities clearance and settlement processes after the securities markets problems of October 1987. He was a member of the Board of Directors of Honeywell International from 1997-2005. Carter also chaired the Massachusetts Governors Special Advisory Task Force investigating Massport and Bostons Logan Airport following the events of September 11, 2001. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.Born in 1940, an Army junior, Marsh grew up in Washington DC, Illinois, Alaska, and Colorado. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
