Jacquelyn R. Gillette | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jacquelyn R. Gillette curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-669 jgillett@mit.edu (617) 253-7084 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jgillett/ Title Class of 1942 Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Jacquelyn Gillette is the Class of 1942 Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her research focuses on the mechanisms that shape the information environment and the pricing of securities in public debt markets. Currently, her work concentrates on the role of accounting and information intermediaries in the corporate bond market. Gillette is also interested in the causes and consequences of voluntary firm disclosures and financial restatements.She holds a MS in Business Administration and a PhD from the University of Rochester, and a BBA in accounting from the University of Georgia. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Pay for Praise: Do Rating Agencies Get Paid More When They Provide Higher Ratings? An Examination of the Consequences of the Recalibration of Municipal Debt." Beatty, Anne, Jacquelyn Gillette, Reining Petacchi, and Joseph Weber, Working Paper. 2018. Featured Publication "The Role of Debt Analyst Reports for Firms in Financial Distress." Gillette, Jacquelyn. PhD diss., University of Rochester, 2017. "Do Rating Agencies Benefit from Providing Higher Ratings? Evidence from the Consequences of Municipal Bond Ratings Recalibration." Beatty, Anne, Jacquelyn Gillette, Reining Petacchi, and Joseph Weber. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 57, No. 2 (2019): 323-354. "The Effect of Credit Ratings on Disclosure: Evidence from the Recalibration of Moodys Municipal Ratings." Gillette, Jacquelyn, Delphine Samuels, and Frank Zhou, Working Paper. 2018. "Measuring Firms Investment in Accounting Resources: Implications for Malfeasance versus Optimal Incompetence." Gillette, Jacquelyn, Sudarshan Jayaraman, and Jerold L. Zimmerman, Working Paper. 2017. "The Role of Debt Analyst Reports for Firms in Financial Distress." Gillette, Jacquelyn, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5376-17. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, January 2017. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Get to know MIT Sloans eight new faculty members New professors examine manufacturing in the developing world, improving health care with limited resources, and more. Aug 15, 2016 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The Wall Street Journal The Muni-Bond Mania Jun 4, 2019 Faculty: Jacquelyn R. Gillette Joseph P. Weber The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
