Wanda Orlikowski | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Wanda Orlikowski Support Staff Ariel Brandner (617) 253-6605 abrandne@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-418 wanda@mit.edu (617) 253-0443 (617) 258-7579 http://ccs.mit.edu/wanda.html Title Alfred P. Sloan Professor of Management Professor, Information Technologies and Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Information Systems Research MIT Center for Collective Intelligence The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy MIT Leadership Center Wanda Orlikowski is the Alfred P. Sloan Professor of Management and aProfessor of Information Technologies and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Orlikowski investigates technologies in the workplace, with particular emphasis on structures, cultures, work practices, and organizational change. She has examined the use of groupware technologies in distributed collaboration, as well as the social and technological aspects of working virtually. Orlikowski led a multiyear National Science Foundation project on the social and economic implications of using Internet technologies within firms. She is currently examining the conditions and consequences of digital work. Orlikowski holds a BComm and an MComm in business information systems from the University of the Witwatersrand, and an MPhil and a PhD in information systems from New York University. Honors AOM elects Orlikowski as a fellow Wanda Orlikowski has been elected as a Fellow of the Academy of Management (AOM), in recognition of Distinguished and Scholarly Contributions to the Profession of Management. Orlikowski was officially inducted at the annual AOM Fellows dinner during the 79th Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management in Boston in August 2019. Read More Wanda Orlikowski receives Distinguished Scholar Award Wanda Orlikowski is the recipient of the Distinguished Scholar Award given by the Organizational Communication and Information Systems (OCIS) Division of the Academy of Management. Read More Wanda Orlikowski and JoAnne Yates win Best Information Systems Publications Award Wanda Orlikowski and JoAnne Yates won the 2014 Best Information Systems Publications Award given by the Association for Information Systems (AIS). The award recognizes the breadth of high-quality work that is being published in the information systems discipline across a range of journals. The winning paper (co-authored with their former doctoral student, Melissa Mazmanian, now at UC Irvine) is entitled The Autonomy Paradox: The Implications of Mobile Email Devices for Knowledge Professionals. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "What Happens When Evaluation Goes Online? Exploring Apparatuses of Valuation in the Travel Sector." Scott, Susan V. and Wanda J. Orlikowski. Organization Science Vol. 25, No. 3 (2014): 868-891. "Trajectory Dynamics in Innovation: Developing and Transforming a Mobile Money Service across Time and Place." Oborn, Eivor, Michael Barrett, Wanda Orlikowski, and Anna Kim. Organization Science Vol. 30, No. 5 (2019): 1097-1123. "Performing Apparatus: Infrastructures of Valuation in Hospitality." Orlikowski, Wanda and Susan V. Scott. Research in the Sociology of Organizations Vol. 62, (2019): 169-179. "A Genealogical Account of Metadata-in-practice: Magic Numbers and Misfires in Book Publishing." Susan V. Scott, and Wanda Orlikowski. In Proceedings of the 77th Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management, edited by John Humphreys, Atlanta, GA: August 2017. "Digital Work: A Research Agenda." Orlikowski, Wanda, and Susan V. Scott. In A Research Agenda for Management and Organization Studies, edited by Barbara Czarniawska, 88-95. London, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing, Inc., 2016. "Creating Value in Online Communities: The Sociomaterial Configuring of Strategy, Platform, and Stakeholder Engagement." Barrett, Michael, Eivor Oborn, and Wanda Orlikowski. Information Systems Research Vol. 27, No. 4 (2016): 704-723. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan course combines art and leadership to translate capabilities into practice In "Leadership in Practice: Making and Learning," MIT Sloan students integrate the MIT Leadership Capabilities model with arts processes and experiential sessions. Mar 2, 2020 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
