John Neeson | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John Neeson Get in Touch Building E62 jneeson@mit.edu Title Lecturer About John Neeson is a Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.John was co-ceo/founder of SiriusDecsions, a research and consulting firm focusing on business-to-business sales, marketing, and product management. Under Johns leadership, SiriusDecisions grew to over $100 million in revenue, 350 employees helping over 1,900 companies around the world optimizing their top-line growth with their proprietary methods. John is a well-recognized thought leader in business-to-business marketing, most recently named as one of the top 10 most influential people in marketing today by the B2B News Network. He has more than 30 years of experience focused on marketing, product development, sales management, communications, and general management in a variety of businesses and industries.Prior to founding SiriusDecisions in 2001, John was chief executive officer of Skila, a SaaS provider of business intelligence solutions for the pharmaceutical, medical device, and biotechnology industries. John also spent 14 years at Gartner as a member of the company's senior management team, holding positions that included vice president of sales, senior vice president of worldwide marketing, and executive vice president and general manager of the Technology Provider Group. John was one of the five officers of the company and was instrumental in helping Gartner grow from $25 million in yearly sales to $1 billon. While at Gartner, John rebranded the company, played an active role in more than 25 acquisitions and investments, and was part of the team that created the concept of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). John began his career at 3M Corporation in the Media Services division where he was a consultant.John served as a board member for Jupiter Communications, Avalere Health, SiriusDecisions, and also has been an advisor to several start-up companies. He is currently a board member for CyberScout, CxoNexus, an Adjunct Professor at Boston College, and a special advisor to several private equity firms.John has BA in economics from Ithaca College. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
