Erin L. Scott | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Erin L. Scott Support Staff Judith Graham-Robey (617) 253-6680 jgrobey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-470 elscott@mit.edu (617) 715-2201 https://www.entrepreneurial-strategy.net/ Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Erin L Scott is a Senior Lecturer in Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Scotts work focuses on uncertainty and strategic development in early-stage ventures. Most recently, her work was featured in the Harvard Business Review and Management Science. At MIT Sloan, she teaches Entrepreneurial Founding & Teams (MBA), Entrepreneurial Strategy (EMBA/Sloan Fellows), as well as assorted MBA and Sloan Fellows innovation and strategy courses. In addition, Scott mentors MIT startups and consults for ventures within the broader ecosystem.Scott holds a holds a BE and an MBA-MS in biomedical engineering from Vanderbilt University and Washington University in St. Louis, respectively. A recipient of the Kauffman Dissertation Fellowship, she earned her PhD in strategy from Washington University in St. Louis. Scott then completed a postdoctoral fellowship in the National Bureau of Economic Researchs Innovation Policy and the Economy Group. She began her academic career at the National University of Singapore. Publications "Choosing Technology: An Entrepreneurial Strategy Approach." Gans,Joshua S., Michael Kearney, Erin L. Scott, and Scott Stern. Strategy Science. Forthcoming. "Entrepreneurial Uncertainty and Expert Evaluation: An Empirical Analysis." Scott, Erin L., Pian Scott, and Roman M. Lubynsky. Management Science Vol. 66, No. 3 (2020): 1005-1015. Download Paper. "Strategy for Start-ups." Gans, Joshua, Erin L Scott, and Scott Stern. Harvard Business Review, May 2018. "Gender Gap in High-Growth Ventures: Evidence from a University Venture Mentoring Program." Scott, Erin L., and Pian Shu. American Economic Review: Papers and Proceedings Vol. 107, No. 5 (2017): 308-311. Download Paper. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
