Christine Kelly | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Christine Kelly Support Staff Ryan Harrington (617) 715-5675 ryanharr@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-325 ckelly@mit.edu (617) 452-3594 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, Managerial Communication 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Christine Kelly is a Senior Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Kelly teaches management communication, communication as advocacy in workplace relationships, and organizational communication. She specializes in individual effectiveness in relation to interpersonal and communication skills, and learning and performance. Kelly has been involved in professional development programs for executives and business faculty from around the world. In her work with managers, she draws on theater education and experience to create exercises to extend and enhance communication styles. Kelly holds a BA in English literature and speech and an MS in theater and speech from Kansas State University and an EdD in organizational communication and adult education from Teachers College of Columbia University. Honors Kelly wins Aspen Institute Award Christine Kelly, senior lecturer, is one of several faculty members at MIT Sloan who have won the 2019 Ideas Worth Teaching Award from The Aspen Institutes Business & Society Program. The other MIT Sloan winners are Barbara Dyer, Leigh Hafrey, and Thomas Kochan. This award recognizes 10 exceptional courses, and honors faculty who are redefining business education, providing learning experiences that equip managers of tomorrow with the context, skills, and decision-making capabilities needed to lead in an increasingly complex business environment and world.The award celebrates innovative teaching that challenges conventional thinking and tests new approaches to divisive issues, rethinking the path forward for business and society and preparing students to make business decisions that create both financial and social value. The winning course, 15.S02 Bridging the American Divides: Work Community and Culture USA Lab, is MIT Sloans U.S.-focused Action Learning Lab, developed by the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan in partnership with the MIT Mens et Manus America Initiative and MIT Sloan Action Learning. Read More Media Highlights Source: Inc. The 10 most forward-thinking business courses of 2019 Dec 9, 2019 Faculty: Barbara Dyer Leigh Hafrey Christine Kelly Thomas Kochan The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
