Donald Kieffer | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Donald Kieffer Get in Touch Building E48 donkieffer@mit.edu (414) 721-1299 n/a Title Senior Lecturer, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management System Dynamics Academic Area Management Science Donald Kieffer is a Senior Lecturer in Operations Management at MIT Sloan.Kieffer started working in factories at the age of 17 as piece-worker on a metal lathe. He later spent 15 years at Harley-Davidson where he led the Twin Cam 88 engine project and became vice president of manufacturing excellence, responsible for both engine manufacturing and improvement across the company. He was also senior vice president of operations for a multinational corporation, responsible for 5,000 people globally in manufacturing, engineering, supply chain, quality, and logistics. He works globally with a focus on knowledge, creative, and executive work.He founded the consulting firm, ShiftGear Work Design, in 2007.Kieffer holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A better process for processes Visualization techniques natural to factory work can help knowledge workers transform their processes. Nov 8, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter The top 10 MIT Sloan stories of 2018 Top 10 news and research articles for 2018 from MIT Sloan School of Management. Dec 4, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review Twelve essential leadership insights Jul 31, 2019 Faculty: Nelson P. Repenning Donald Kieffer Duncan Simester Staff: Allyson MacDonald The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
