Erin Kelly | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Erin Kelly Support Staff Ieva Paulauskaite (617) 324-7368 ieva@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-340 ELKELLY@MIT.EDU (617) 324-4116 Title Sloan Distinguished Professor of Work and Organization Studies Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Institute for Work and Employment Research Good Companies, Good Jobs Erin L. Kelly is theSloan Distinguished Professor of Work and Organization Studiesat the MIT Sloan School of Management and CoDirector in the Institute for Work and Employment Research. She is also Faculty Director of the the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative.Kellys research has been published in many top sociology, management, and interdisciplinary journals and twice recognized with the Rosabeth Moss Kanter Award. Her new book with Phyllis Moen,Overload: How Good Jobs Went Bad and What to Do About It, was published by Princeton University Press in March 2020.Kelly investigates the implications of workplace policies and management practices for firms, workers, and families with a joint focus on equity, wellbeing, and organizational performance. Previous research has examined scheduling and work-family supports, family leaves, harassment policies, and diversity initiatives in a variety of organizations and industries. Kellys early research contributed to our understanding of which diversity policies and programs seem to change organizations and which are primarily window dressing.As part of the Work, Family, and Health Network, Kelly evaluated innovative approaches to work redesign with group-randomized trials in professional/technical and health care workforces. A current project with MIT Sloan colleagues investigates how schedules and staffing strategies in e-commerce warehouses impact workers experiences, productivity, and turnover. Kelly is also interested in workers voice on the job, and strategies for engaging workers and learning together in different work contexts. Ongoing projects explore different facets of wellbeing and engagement in low- and moderate-wage jobs, including warehouse work, with the goal of identifying promising practices and designing evaluation projects that advance both scholarly and organizational goals. Kelly is a sociologist and received her PhD from Princeton University and her BA from Rice University. She previously taught at the University of Minnesota. Honors Erin Kelly recognized for work-family research Erin Kelly has won the 2015 Rosabeth Moss Kanter Award for Excellence in Work-Family Research. The Center for Families at Purdue University and the Boston College Center for Work & Family developed this award to raise the awareness of high-quality work-family research among the scholar, consultant, and practitioner communities. This 15th Anniversary year, five finalists were selected by a committee of over 55 leading scholars. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Overload: How Good Jobs Went Bad and What We Can Do about It. Kelly, Erin L. and Phyllis Moen. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2020. "Cardiometabolic Risks Associated with Work-to-family Conflict: Findings from the Work Family Health Network." O'Donnell, Emily M., Lisa F. Berkman, Erin L. Kelly, Leslie B. Hammer, Jessica Marden, and Orfeu M. Buxton. Community, Work and Family Vol. 22, No. 2 (2019): 203-228. "Job Strain, Time Strain, and Well-being: A Longitudinal, Person-centered Approach in Two Industries." Fan, Wen, Phyllis Moen, Erin Kelly, Leslie Hammer, and Lisa F. Berkman. Journal of Vocational Behavior Vol. 110, No. A (2019): 102-116. "Worker Voice in America: Is There a Gap between What Workers Expect and What They Experience?" Kochan, Thomas A., Duanyi Yang, William T. Kimball, and Erin L. Kelly. Industrial and Labor Relations Review Vol. 72, No. 1 (2019): 3-38. Download Preprint. "Partners Overwork and Individuals Wellbeing and Experienced Relationship Quality." Shafer, Emily Fitzgibbons, Erin L. Kelly, Orfeu Buxton, and Lisa F. Berkman. Community, Work and Family Vol. 21, No. 4 (2018): 410-428. "Effects of a Flexibility/Support Intervention on Work Performance: Evidence From the Work, Family, and Health Network." Bray, Jeremy W., Jesse M. Hinde, David J. Kaiser, Michael J. Mills, Georgia T. Karuntzos, Katie R. Genadek, Erin L. Kelly, Ellen E. Kossek, and David A. Hurtado. American Journal of Health Promotion Vol. 32, No. 4 (2018): 963-970. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Redesigning the link between worker well-being and company goals A dual-agenda work redesign requires managers to step back from how theyve managed in the past and give employees more control over their work. May 28, 2020 Read Article MIT Sloan Experts Join the #Overload Twitter chat with Erin Kelly on May 6 to discuss workplace burnout and what we can do about it To learn more about how companies can adopt healthier practices, tune into the Overload Twitter Chat on Wednesday, May 6 at 11 a.m. ET. Use the hashtags to ask your questions and share your experiences and ideas on how to combat workplace burnout. Apr 29, 2020 Read More Load More Media Highlights Source: Fast Company The upside of a flexible work week Nov 9, 2020 When employees have a sense of choice and control over when, how, and where they do their work, it's really valuable for their well-being." Faculty: Erin Kelly Source: The Wall Street Journal Can you ask your boss for child care flexibility without hurting your ca... Oct 13, 2020 There is still a stigma in asking for flexibility. Some bosses may view it as an indication that you're less committed to the job,. Faculty: Erin Kelly Source: The New York Times Parents got more time off. Then the backlash started. Sep 5, 2020 "...what do you think is going to happen if that person quits?...You're going to actually be stretched further. Faculty: Erin Kelly Source: Boston Review Six labor policies we need now Sep 4, 2020 "...we are seeing in many of our students a new determination to help shape a fairer, more equitable, and sustainable business world. Faculty: Erin Kelly Emilio J. Castilla Thomas Kochan Barbara Dyer Paul Osterman Nathan Wilmers Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
