Adrien Verdelhan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Adrien Verdelhan Support Staff Carlos Pena (617) 253-5858 CPENA@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-624 adrienv@mit.edu (617) 253-5123 (617) 258-6855 http://web.mit.edu/adrienv/www/ Title Stephens Naphtal Professor of Finance Associate Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Adrien Verdelhan is the Stephens Naphtal Professor of Finance and an Associate Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on measures of systematic risk in financial markets, particularly in currency and sovereign bond markets. Verdelhans work in international finance shows when and why exchange rates are risky, thus shedding light on the most well-known and puzzling currency trading strategy: the carry trade. His recent work focuses on arbitrage opportunities and the role of banking regulation. His research has been published notably in the American Economic Review, The Journal of Finance, and The Review of Financial Studies.He is currently a Research Fellow of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He was elected Teacher of the Year in 2011, 2018, and 2020 by MIT Sloan students and received the Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching in 2016.He holds a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago.Current Research Focus: Verdelhan'sresearchfocus is international finance with a particular interest in foreign exchange and bond markets.Currentprojects include the impact of exchange rates on firms decisions and outcomes, the share of systematic risk in bilateral exchange rates at high frequencies, the impact of financial intermediaries on exchange rate derivative pricing at the transaction level, the volatility of international capital flows, as well as the quantity and price of currency risk and sovereign risk in international equity and bond markets. Honors Verdelhan wins Amundi Pioneer Prize Adrien Verdelhan has won the 2018 Amundi Pioneer Prize (formerly named the Amundi Smith Breeden Prize)First Prizefor the best paper in any area other than corporate finance published in The Journal of Finance, which is the official publication of The American Finance Association and one of the most widely cited academic journals in finance as well as in economics. Verdelhans winning paper, co-authored with Wenxin Du (Chicago Booth) and Alexander Tepper (Federal Reserve Bank of New York), is entitled, Deviations from Covered Interest Rate Parity (The Journal of Finance, 73(3):915-957, June 2018). Read More Adrien Verdelhan receives first prize Adrien Verdelhan has received the 2017 AQR Insight Award First Prize, sponsored by AQR Capital Management. This award recognizes exceptional unpublished academic papers that provide the most significant original approaches to investment issues, offering practical insights for taxable investor or tax-exempt institutional portfolios. The winners are invited to present their new research at AQR. Verdelhans winning paper, co-authored with Wenxin Du (Federal Reserve Board) and Alexander Tepper (Columbia University), is entitled "Deviations from Covered Interest Rate Parity. Read More Verdelhan wins Jamieson Prize Adrien Verdelhan and Arnie Barnett were each awarded the 2016Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Deviations from Covered Interest Rate Parity." Du, Wenxin, Alexandre Tepper, and Adrian Verdelhan. Journal of Finance Vol. 73, No. 3 (2018): 915-957. Featured Publication "The Share of Systematic Risk in Bilateral Exchange Rates." Verdelhan, Adrien. Journal of Finance Vol. 73, No. 1 (2018): 375-418. SSRN Preprint. "The Term Structure of Currency Carry Trade Risk Premia." Lustig, Hanno N., Andreas Stathopoulos, and Adrien Verdelhan. American Economic Review Vol. 109, No. 12 (2019): 4122-4177. "Does Incomplete Spanning in International Financial Markets Help to Understand Exchange Rates? A Quantitative Assessment." Lustig, Hanno N. and Adrien Verdelhan. American Economic Review Vol. 109, No. 6 (2019): 2208-2244. Download Paper. "Common Factors, Order Flows, and Exchange Rate Dynamics." Fourel, Valre, Dagfinn Rime, Lucio Sarno, Maik Schmeling, and Adrien Verdelhan, Working Paper. 2018. "The International CAPM Redux." Brusa, Francesca, Tarun Ramadorai and Adrien Verdelhan, Working Paper. 2015. Load More Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants 2019 MBAs To Watch: Faina Rozental, MIT Sloan May 10, 2019 Faculty: Adrien Verdelhan Christopher F. Noe The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
