Leonid Kogan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Leonid Kogan curriculum vitae Support Staff Idali Vega Sanchez (617) 715-4834 ivega@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-636 lkogan@mit.edu (617) 253-2289 (617) 258-6855 http://web.mit.edu/~lkogan2/www/ Title Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Professor of Management Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering Leonid Kogan is the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Professor of Management and a Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Prior to MIT Sloan, Kogan taught at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. During 200708, he was a senior researcher at Lehman Brothers. His research interests include asset pricing theory, macro-finance, empirical asset pricing, and financial engineering. Kogans recent research has focused on the links between economic activity of firms and their stock price behavior, the effects of investor heterogeneity on aggregate asset prices, and the computational aspects of option pricing and portfolio choice.Kogan has published extensively in leading academic journals, includingThe Journal of Finance, the Journal of Financial Economics, the Journal of Political Economy, and Operations Research. He has won numerous professional awards, including the 1998 Lehman Brothers Fellowship for Research Excellence in Finance for his work on the asset pricing implications of investment irreversibility; the 2004 FAME Research Prize, and the 2006 Smith-Breeden Prize for his work on the price impact and survival of irrational traders; and the 2007 Crowell Memorial Prize for his work on output durability and stock returns. He is currently a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research.Kogan holds an MSc in mechanics and applied mathematics from Moscow State University, a PhD in mechanics from Cornell University, and a PhD in finance from MIT.Current Research Focus:Kogan works on topics in asset pricing and macro-finance. His recent projects focus on the creative destruction aspects of technological progress, with particular focus on how technological innovation affects prices of financial assets, labor income dynamics, and inequality; on new statistical methods for measuring robustness of asset pricing models; and on valuation of crypto assets in proof-of-stake networks. Honors Kogan wins NASDAQ award Leonid Kogan has won the NASDAQ Award from the Western Finance Association for the best paper on asset pricing. Kogans winning paper, co-authored with Winston Dou (Wharton) and Wei Wu (Texas A&M), is entitled, Common Fund Flows: Flow Hedging and Factor Pricing. Read More Leonid Kogan wins Amundi Smith Breeden Prize Leonid Kogan has won the 2014 Amundi Smith Breeden Prize (first prize) for the best paper in The Journal of Finance, which is the official publication of the American Finance Association and one of the most widely cited academic journals in finance and economics. His winning paper (co-authored with D. Papanikolaou of Kellogg) is entitled Growth Opportunities, Technology Shocks, and Asset Prices. Read More Professor Leonid Kogan wins 2013 Crowell Second Prize from PanAgora Asset Management's Quantitative Research Institute MIT Sloan Professor of Finance Leonid Kogan won for his paper "Technological Innovation, Resource Allocation, and Growth" co-authored with D. Papanikolaou of Kellogg, A. Seru of Chicago Booth, and N. Stoffman of Indiana University's Kelley School of Business. The prize, which recognizes contributions to the field of quantitative asset management, provides a forum for new and cutting-edge research that connects theory and practice, in support of the continued development of the science of economics. The prize is named in honor of PanAgora's founder, the late Dr. Richard A. Crowell, a pioneer in the field of quantitative investing. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Common Fund Flows: Flow Hedging and Factor Pricing." Dou, Winston, Leonid Kogan, and Wei Wu, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6145-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "Left Behind: Creative Destruction, Inequality, and the Stock Market." Kogan, Leonid, Dimitris Papanikolaou, and Noah Stoffman. Journal of Political Economy Vol. 128, No. 3 (2020): 855-906. Online Appendix. SSRN. "Technological Innovation, Intangible Capital, and Asset Prices." Kogan, Leonid, and Dimitris Papanikolaou. Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 11, (2019): 221-242. "Compounding of Wealth in Proof-of-Stake Cryptocurrencies." Fanti, Giulia, Leonid Kogan, Sewoong Oh, Kathleen Ruan, Pramod Viswanath, and Gerui Wang. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security. FC 2019. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, edited by Ian Goldberg and Tyler Moore. Cham, Switzerland: September 2019. arXiv Preprint. "Equilibrium Analysis of Asset Prices: Lessons from CIR and APT." Kogan, Leonid and Dimitris Papanikolaou. The Journal of Portfolio Management Vol. 44, No. 6 (2018): 59-69. "Technological Innovation, Resource Allocation, and Growth." Kogan, Leonid, Dimitris Papanikolaou, Amit Seru, and Noah Stoffman. Quarterly Journal of Economics Vol. 132, No. 2 (2017): 665-712. Online Appendix. Load More Recent Insights Press MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance sees record enrollment To date, more than 50,000 participants from 175 countries have enrolled in classes in the program. Sep 1, 2020 Read Article Press MIT Sloan launches the MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance Available on the edX platform, the program offers individuals an opportunity to enhance their financial skill set or fast-track a masters degree in finance from MIT Sloan. Jan 15, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants After months of delay, tens of thousands sign up for new MIT Sloan progr... Sep 2, 2020 The MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance is designed to meet the growing demand for the skills and expertise required for a career in finance. Faculty: Leonid Kogan Egor Matveyev David C. Schmittlein Staff: Heidi Pickett The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
