Thomas Stoker | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Thomas Stoker Support Staff Emily Fairbanks (617) 253-8959 manninge@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-360 tstoker@mit.edu (617) 253-2625 (617) 258-6786 http://web.mit.edu/tstoker/www/ Title Gordon Y Billard Professor in Management and Economics, Emeritus Professor, Applied Economics, Emeritus 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research Laboratory for Financial Engineering Thomas M. Stoker is theGordon Y BillardProfessor in Management and Economics, Emeritusand a Professor of Applied Economics, Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Stoker is a leading researcher in economic modeling, econometric methodology, and empirical analysis of economic relationships. His specialties include aggregation in economicswhich connect individual decisions with overall economic aggregatesand semiparametric econometricswhich refer to flexible methods of estimation for economic models. Stoker has done applications to a diverse range of empirical problems in economics, including consumer demand, energy demand and supply, housing wealth and consumption, and the study of unemployment. He is a Fellow of the Econometric Society.Stoker holds a BS in mathematics from the University of Arizona and an MS and a PhD in economics from Harvard University. Publications SSRN "There Is No Free House: Ethnic Patronage and Property Rights in a Kenyan Slum." Marx, Benjamin, Thomas Stoker, and Tavneet Suri, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5041-13. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, August 2016. "The Economics of Slums in the Developing World." Marx, Benjamin, Thomas Stoker, and Tavneet Suri. Journal of Economic Perspectives Vol. 27, No. 4 (2013): 187-210. "Documenting the Birth of a Financial Economy." Suri, Tavneet, William Jack, and Thomas Stoker. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 109, No. 26 (2012): 10257-262. "Set Identification and Sensitivity Analysis with Tobin Regressors." Chernozhukov, Victor, Roberto Rigobon and Thomas Stoker. Quantitative Economics Vol. 1, No. 2 (2010): 255-277. "Bias from Censored Regressors." Rigobon, Roberto and Thomas Stoker. Journal of Business and Economic Statistics Vol. 27, No. 3 (2009): 340-353. "Aggregation: Econometrics." Stoker, Thomas. In The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, edited by L. Blume and S. Durlauf, London, England: Macmillan, 2008. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
