Kit Hickey | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Kit Hickey linkedin Get in Touch Building E40-TRUST CENTER khickey@MIT.EDU (781) 254-6910 Title Lecturer and Entrepreneur in Residence About Kit Hickey is an Entrepreneur-in-Residence at the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship and a Lecturer at MIT Sloan School of Management.Kit is cofounder of Ministry of Supply, which is a pioneer in fashions performance-professional category. The company uses technology and advanced manufacturing to reinvent what people wear to work. Ministry of Supply has been featured in The New York Times, Fast Company, The Wall Street Journal, and on the TODAY Show. While at the company, Kit led and build out numerous high performing teams, including customer, revenue, e-commerce, and retail. As chief retail officer, Kit spearheaded the companys expansion into retail, opened 10 stores, managed a team of 50, and conceptualized and developed the companys revolutionary 3D print-knit experience. In this innovative store experience, customers could design and create blazers on demand, which are then 3D printed in the retail store, changing the conversation on traditional retail supply chain, manufacturing, sustainability, and customer experience.Prior to Ministry of Supply, Kit started a nonprofit which helped entrepreneurs in emerging markets gain access to financing. The nonprofit merged with BiD Network, a Netherlands-based company with a similar mission. Before that, she worked in investment banking, where she advised early-stage companies raise Series A and Series B funding.Kit teaches two to three entrepreneurship classes per year at MIT. She is the lead instructor for the Building an Entrepreneurial Venture: Advanced Tools and Techniques, one of the most advanced classes offered for entrepreneurial teams. She also teaches Dilemmas in Founding New Ventures, which she designed to teach students who will start or join startups about the people issues and organizational challenges that innovative entrepreneurial ventures face. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
