Basima Tewfik | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Basima Tewfik curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building E62 btewfik@mit.edu (617) 253-9410 Title Assistant Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Basima Tewfik (pronouncedbah-see-ma too-fik) is an Assistant Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Broadly speaking, she researches the psychological experience of top talent in the workplace and its consequences as well as intra- and intergroup conflict and conflict management. Her dissertation, entitled Impostor thoughts as a double-edged sword: Theoretical conceptualization, construct measurement, and relationships with work-related outcomes was named the winner of the 2018 INFORMS Dissertation Proposal Competition.Prior to her graduate studies, Basima worked as a management consultant at Booz & Company, engaging with national as well as global clients across a wide range of industries including financial services, healthcare, education, and aerospace and defense. She received her PhD in management (Organizational Behavior) from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and her AB, summa cum laude, in psychology with a secondary degree in economics from Harvard University. Honors Tewfik wins Best Conference Paper Basima Tewfik won Best Conference Paper from the International Association for Conflict Management (IACM) in 2019. Tewfik won for her paper, "The Help-Decliners Dilemma: How to Decline Requests for Help at Work without Hurting Ones Image." The paper's co-authors are Timothy Kundro and Philip Tetlock. The paper was presented at IACM 2019 in Dublin, Ireland. Read More Publications "The Help-Decliner's Dilemma: How to Decline Requests for Help at Work Without Hurting One's Image." Basima A. Tewfik, Timothy Kundro, and Philip Tetlock. August 2018. "A New Look at Conflict Management in Work Groups." Carton, Andrew M. and Basima A. Tewfik. Organization Science Vol. 27, No. 5 (2016): 1125-1141. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Meet MIT Sloans 5 new faculty members Their expertise includes conflict management, data-driven decision-making, and more. Jul 3, 2019 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants All the new faculty at the top 25 schools Sep 11, 2019 Faculty: Jackson G. Lu Basima Tewfik Abdullah Almaatouq Daniel Freund Jacquelyn Pless The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
