Leigh Hafrey | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Leigh Hafrey linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Ieva Paulauskaite (617) 324-7368 ieva@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-341 lhafrey@mit.edu (617) 258-0266 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, Communication and Ethics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Leigh Hafrey is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Since 1991, Hafrey has worked in professional ethics, with a focus on ethical leadership, teaching courses at Harvard Business School and MIT Sloan, and consulting with professional practitioners in the United States and abroad. At MIT Sloan, he teaches in the MBA program and Leaders for Global Operations, for which he moderates a mandatory two-year leadership course. He has also taught in MITs Industrial Liaison, MIT-China Management Education, Master of Finance, Management of Technology, Nanyang Fellows, Sloan Fellows in Innovation and Global Leadership, Supply Chain Management, and System Design and Management programs.Since 1996, Hafrey has moderated the Aspen Institutes Seminar in Leadership, Values, and the Good Society and other seminars sponsored by the Institute in the U.S. and abroad. From 1993 to 2010, together with his wife, Sandra Naddaff, Hafrey was a co-Master of Mather House, one of the 12 residential complexes in Harvard College. The Mather community brings together 400 undergraduates; 100 faculty, administrative, and alumni fellows; and dozens of advisory and other staff.A former staff editor at The New York Times Book Review, Hafrey has published reporting, essays, reviews, interviews, and translations in The New York Times and other American and European periodicals. He serves on the editorial advisory board of Philosophy of Management (U.K.) and the Journal of Business Ethics Education (U.S.). His publications on business and management include a quarterly column for IPA's Business Today(2007-09);cases and blogs for MIT Sloan; a book on how people use stories to articulate ethical norms,The Story of Success: Five Steps to Mastering Ethics in Business (2005); andWar Stories: Fighting, Competing, Imagining, Leading, an essay on business alternatives to a culture of war in today's America (2016).Hafrey holds an AB in English from Harvard College and a PhD in comparative literature from Yale University. Honors Hafrey wins Aspen Institute Award Leigh Hafrey, senior lecturer, is one of several faculty members at MIT Sloan who have won the 2019 Ideas Worth Teaching Award from The Aspen Institutes Business & Society Program. The other MIT Sloan winners are Barbara Dyer, Christine Kelly, and Thomas Kochan. This award recognizes 10 exceptional courses, and honors faculty who are redefining business education, providing learning experiences that equip managers of tomorrow with the context, skills, and decision-making capabilities needed to lead in an increasingly complex business environment and world.The award celebrates innovative teaching that challenges conventional thinking and tests new approaches to divisive issues, rethinking the path forward for business and society and preparing students to make business decisions that create both financial and social value. The winning course, 15.S02 Bridging the American Divides: Work Community and Culture USA Lab, is MIT Sloans U.S.-focused Action Learning Lab, developed by the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan in partnership with the MIT Mens et Manus America Initiative and MIT Sloan Action Learning. Read More Publications "Whos Calling the Shots on Data and AI?" Hafrey, Leigh. MIT School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences: Great Ideas Change the World, February 18, 2019. "Do Good Manners Matter? Protocol, Etiquette, and Ethics." Hafrey, Leigh. In 17th Annual International Protocol Education Forum, Boston, MA: July 2018. "What is Business Ethics, & How Do We Live and Work By It?" Hafrey, Leigh. Presentation, Banco Pichincha, Quito, Ecuador. February 23, 2018. "Asociacin Chilena de Seguridad (ACHS) (A): Honoring a Legacy, Embracing Change." Leigh Hafrey and Cate Reavis. In MIT Sloan Case #15-162, Cambridge, MA: April 2016. "Asociacin Chilena de Seguridad (ACHS) (B): Sustaining Change." Leigh Hafrey and Cate Reavis. In MIT Sloan Case #15-163, Cambridge, MA: April 2016. "Which Way to the Front?" Hafrey, Leigh. HuffPost, January 2016. Load More Media Highlights Source: Inc. The 10 most forward-thinking business courses of 2019 Dec 9, 2019 Faculty: Barbara Dyer Leigh Hafrey Christine Kelly Thomas Kochan The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
