John Van Maanen | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John Van Maanen curriculum vitae Support Staff Virginia Geiger (617) 253-2602 vgeiger@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-322 jvm@mit.edu (617) 253-3610 (617) 253-2660 Title Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management Emeritus Professor, Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences John Van Maanen is the Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management, Emeritus and aProfessor of Organization Studies, Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He works within the fields of organization behavior and theory. Van Maanen is an ethnographer of organizations ranging in type from police organizations to educational institutions, as well as a variety of business firms. Cultural descriptions figure prominently in his studies of such diverse work worlds as beat patrolmen on city streets in the United States; police detectives and their guvnors in London; fishermen in the North Atlantic; MBA students at MIT and Harvard Business School, and park operatives in the Sistine Chapel of Fakery, Disneyland (here and abroad).In addition, he has worked with numerous public and private organizations in North America, Europe, and Asia, including BP, IBM, BMW, Siemens, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Lafarge, Mars, Warburg Dillon Read, Sabanci University, and the National University of Technology (Singapore).Van Maanen has taught at MIT Sloan since 1972. He has served as the faculty chair of the MIT Sloan Fellows Program at MIT and as the head of the Organization Studies Group within the Sloan School. He has been a Visiting Professor at Yale University, University of Surrey in the UK, INSEAD in France, and is an Honorary Fellow at Cambridge University.He is the author of numerous books and articles, most recently, Tales of the Field (University of Chicago Press, 2011, 2nd edition). He and Edgar Schein recently coauthored Career Anchors (Wiley, 2013). Van Maanen has served on the editorial boards of a variety of journals, including Administrative Science Quarterly, Human Organizations, Journal of Contemporary Ethnography, Journal of Organizational Ethnography, Human Relations, and Studies in Cultures, Organizations, and Societies.He is a member of the American Sociological Association, the American Anthropological Association, and a fellow of the Society for Applied Anthropology.Van Maanen holds a BA in political science and sociology from California State University at Long Beach, and an MS and a PhD in social administration from the University of California, Irvine. Publications "Withdrawal Pains and Gains: Exiting from the Field." Van Maanen, John. In The Routledge Companion to Anthropology in Management, edited by Anne-Laure Fayard and Raza Mir, New York, NY: 2020. "Foreword." Van Maanen, John. In The Routledge Companion to Career Studies, edited by Hugh Gunz, Mila Lazarova, and Wolfgang Mayrhofer, xx-xxvi. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 2020. Edgar H. Schein The Spirit of Inquiry. Fatzer, Gerhard, John Van Maanen, Daniel C. Schmid, Wolfgang G. Weber (Eds.). Innsbruck, Austria: Innsbruck University Press, 2019. "On Foxes and Hedgehogs: Learning for Ed Schein." Van Maanen, John. In Edgar H. Schein The Spirit of Inquiry, 13-28. Innsbruck, Austria: Innsbruck University Press, 2019. "Foreword." Van Maanen, John. In Case Theory in Business and Management: Reinventing Case Study Research, edited by Evert Gummesson, Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publishing, 2017. "Career Anchors and Job/Role Planning: Tools for Career and Talent Management." Schein, Edgar H., and John Van Maanen. Organizational Dynamics Vol. 45, No. 3 (2016): 165-173. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 4 things you need to know about soft skills MIT Sloan experts share their knowledge and experience about the benefits of critical thinking and collaboration. Feb 6, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: GreenBook Blog Interview with Deborah Ancona: Seley Distinguished Professor Sep 17, 2019 Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Lotte Bailyn John Van Maanen Source: MIT Sloan Management Review A new era for culture, change, and leadership Jun 5, 2019 Faculty: Edgar H. Schein Lotte Bailyn John Van Maanen The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
