Miro Kazakoff | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Miro Kazakoff twitter linkedin Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-327 mirok@MIT.EDU (617) 715-2200 Title Lecturer, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Miro Kazakoff is a Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Histeachingof management communication emphasizestheconnection between audience, performance, and impact. Kazakoff also regularly teaches the International Faculty Fellowshipprogramon techniques for teaching at the post-secondary and graduate school level. Kazakoff is the cofounder of Testive, an education technology company that offers technology-supported private tutoring at lower costs thantraditionallypossible in private tutoring models. Kazakoff holds a AB in English from Georgetown University with a minor in Computer Science and an MBA from MIT Sloan. Honors Kazakoff wins teaching award Miro Kazakoff has won a 2020 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for his work teaching on campus and/or remotely. Kazakoff won the award along with fellow Sloan faculty members Kara Blackburn, Vivek Farias, Michelle Hanlon, Alexandre Jacquillat, Ben Shields, and Rodrigo Verdi. These student-nominated awards recognize faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.This recognition also gives the MIT community the opportunity to learn from their innovative practices. The awards were co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.This year, students submitted a total of 487 nominations for 232 faculty and instructors, and 30 winners were selected by Dean of Digital Learning Krishna Rajagopal and Vice Chancellor Ian Waitz, with help from MIT Open Learning staff. Read More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Tips for digital teaching from prizewinning professors Distance learning is now standard, whether hybrid or fully online. Heres how to excel at remote teaching, according to five MIT Sloan faculty members. Aug 25, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Data storytelling unlocks the value of analytics Presenting data with empathy and context leads business users to better decision-making. May 20, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants 2020 Best & Brightest MBAs: Alfonso Martinez, MIT (Sloan) May 2, 2020 "Launching a health tech startup and learning how to become an entrepreneur was a key goal of mine for the MBA." Faculty: Miro Kazakoff The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
