Bethany Patten | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Bethany Patten linkedin Get in Touch Building E62-435 BPATTEN@MIT.EDU (917) 658-9460 Title Senior Associate Director, Sustainability Initiative at MIT Sloan Lecturer, Sustainability 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Centers & Initiatives MIT Sloan Sustainability Initiative Bethany Patten is a Lecturer and Senior Associate Director of the Sustainability Initiative at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Her interests intersect at the crossroads of corporate and public policy, with a focus on environmental and social issues. She focuses on applying business practice theory to solve real-world challenges.As an experienced operational leader, Bethany develops relationships with public and private sector organizations, identifying the sustainability-related challenges they face. Through those engagements, she develops learning curriculum for masters-levels students, and teaches course sessions focused on problem formulation, continuous improvement, and change management for sustainability.She is responsible for the growth and quality of MIT Sloans Sustainability Certificate and other programming for students pursuing careers of environmental and social impact. She leads the Sustainability Initiatives efforts to accelerate the move toward evidence-basedclimate policy. Bethany has been an active contributor across MIT, where she serves on the Vice President for Researchs Climate Action Advisory Committee, has directed the MIT Sustainability Summit, and has led several projects on campus aimed at reducing waste.Outside of MIT, Bethany serves as president of Bostons Bay Village Neighborhood Association, is a member of the Boston Chamber of Commerce Alumni Advisory Group, and is board member and treasurer for the Environmental League of Massachusetts. Prior to MIT, Bethany worked for more than a decade in business and financial operations in the book publishing industry. Publications Featured Publication "Is It Easy Being Green?: MIT Sloan Considers the Opportunities and Threats of Sustainable Building." John D. Sterman, Ankita Kaulberg and Bethany Patten. In Case Study: MIT Sloan School Management Learning Edge, Cambridge, MA: 2020. Featured Publication "Climate-Related Financial Disclosures: The Use of Scenarios." Erik Landry, Louis Carranza, James R. Gomes, Henry Jacoby, Donald Lessard, Sergey Paltsev, and Bethany Patten. Cambridge, MA: November 2019. "Is It Easy Being Green?: MIT Sloan Considers the Opportunities and Threats of Sustainable Building." John D. Sterman, Ankita Kaulberg and Bethany Patten. In Case Study: MIT Sloan School Management Learning Edge, Cambridge, MA: 2020. Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Alumni Magazine: Fall 2019, Issue 3 Addressing the opioid crisis and corporate responsibility for a healthie... Nov 1, 2019 Faculty: Bethany Patten The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
