Hui Chen | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Hui Chen curriculum vitae Support Staff Carlos Pena (617) 253-5858 CPENA@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-616 huichen@mit.edu (617) 324-3896 (617) 258-6855 http://www.mit.edu/~huichen/ Title Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering Hui Chen is a Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on asset pricing and its connections with corporate finance. Chen is particularly interested in the interactions between the macro economy and term structure, credit risk, and corporate financing or investment decisions. His recent research projects include application of business cycle models to explain corporate financing behavior and corporate bond pricing, as well as analysis of the effects of incomplete markets on entrepreneurial financing and investments.Chen holds a BA in economics and finance from Zhongshan University, an MS in mathematics from the University of Michigan, and a PhD in finance from the University of Chicago.Current Research Focus: Chen's research focuses on (1) the impact of financial frictions for asset pricing and corporate decisions, and (2) the intersections of economics and machine learning. One of his recent projects studies the interactions between financial distress and price competition. Firms tend to compete on prices more when they are in financial distress. More intense competition can in turn reduce firms' profit margins and push weaker firms further into distress. By studying this feedback loop, the paper generates new insights about how the industry structure and strategic concerns affect price competition and credit risk. He also studies the Chinese financial markets, including the role of repo markets in shadow banking, and how to quantify the impact of pledgeability for the pricing and liquidity of corporate bonds. Chen also has ongoing research projects that try to integrate machine-learning tools with economic theory. For example, he is developing methods to improve the robustness of credit risk forecasting models against adversarial attacks. Honors Chen wins Warga Award Hui Chen has won the 2019 North America Arthur Warga Award for Best Paper in Fixed Incomefrom the Society of Financial Studies for his paper "Pledgeability and Asset Prices: Evidence from the Chinese Corporate Bond Markets." The paper's co-authors are Zhuo Chen, Zhiguo He, Jinyu Liu,and Rengming Xie. Two Arthur Warga Awards are presented every year year. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Systematic Risk, Debt Maturity, and the Term Structure of Credit Spreads." Chen, Hui, Yu Xu, and Jun Yang. Journal of Financial Economics. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Houses as ATMs? Mortgage Refinancing and Macroeconomic Uncertainty." Chen, Hui, Michael Michaux, and Nikolai Roussanov. Journal of Finance Vol. 75, No. 1 (2020): 323-375. Appendix. Download Paper. "Demand for Crash Insurance, Intermediary Constraints, and Risk Premia in Financial Markets." Chen, Hui, Scott Joslin, and Sophie Ni. Review of Financial Studies Vol. 32, No. 1 (2019): 228-265. Download Paper. "Pledgeability and Asset Prices: Evidence from the Chinese Corporate Bond Markets." Chen, Hui, Zhuo Chen, Zhiguo He, Jinyu Liu, and Rengming Xie, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5705-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2020. "Quantifying Liquidity and Default Risks of Corporate Bonds over the Business Cycle." Chen, Hui, Rui Cui, Zhiguo He, and Konstantin Milbradt. Review of Financial Studies Vol. 31, No. 3 (2018): 852-897. Appendix. Download Paper. "Macroeconomic Risk and Debt Overhang." Chen, Hui, and Gustavo Manso. Review of Corporate Finance Studies Vol. 6, No. 1 (2017): 1-38. Load More Media Highlights Source: The Economist What Ant Group's IPO says about the future of finance Oct 10, 2020 Their analytical advantage is most significant with this mass market, where traditional banking models are most inaccessible. Faculty: Hui Chen Source: Wired As Trump squeezes China, Alipay's star rises Sep 20, 2020 AI technologies are everywhere in Ant's business. They can make loan decisions within minutes and with zero involvement of human bankers." Faculty: Hui Chen The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
