Pat Bentley | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Pat Bentley Support Staff Ryan Harrington (617) 715-5675 ryanharr@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-417 pbentley@mit.edu (617) 324-6719 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, MIT Leadership Center About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Pat Bentley is a Senior Lecturer in the MIT Leadership Center at the MIT Sloan School of Management. She works with students and executives to improve their leadership acumen, develop additional communication styles, and increase their abilities to navigate cross-cultural business situations. Bentley is also a business executive with over 25 years of experience in consulting and sales. As vice president of Sapient Corporation, a technology consulting company, she spent 10 years as part of the leadership team that grew the firm from a startup to over 3,000 people with $500 million in annual revenues. Bentley was responsible for clients in financial services; for managing teams in Paris, London, and Frankfurt; and for serving as managing director of the Australian Region. She also was a member of the core team that developed and led a leadership training program that was rolled out to more than 1,000 Sapient employees worldwide. Bentley holds a BA from Smith College, an MBA from Pace University, and a PhD from MITs Program of Science, Technology, and Society. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
