Eben Lazarus | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Eben Lazarus curriculum vitae Support Staff Robert Kissinger (617) 253-7006 rkissing@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-633 elazarus@mit.edu (617) 324-7036 https://elazarus.mit.edu Title Assistant Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Eben Lazarus is an Assistant Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on asset pricing, macroeconomics, and time-series econometrics. In particular, his current work applies economic theory to study empirical questions related to individuals beliefs and risk preferences as expressed in asset prices. His work has also considered econometric theory in time-series settings with serially correlated and heteroskedastic data.He received a BA in economics from the University of Pennsylvania and a PhD in economics from Harvard University.Current Research Focus: Lazaruss research focuses on asset pricing, macroeconomics, and time-series econometrics. His recent asset-pricing work considers how option prices may be used to inform our understanding of the rationality of individuals beliefs, and, in a separate project, individuals risk preferences at different time horizons. His econometrics work focuses on optimal inference and hypothesis testing with time-series data, with a focus on providing unified recommendations to empirical researchers. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Restrictions on Asset-Price Movements Under Rational Expectations: Theory and Evidence." Augenblick, Ned and Eben Lazarus, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5765-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, August 2018. Download Paper. "Duration-Driven Returns." Gormsen, Niels J. and Eben Lazarus, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5775-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2019. Download Paper. "The Size-Power Tradeoff in HAR Inference." Lazarus, Eben, Daniel J. Lewis, and James H. Stock. Revise and Resubmit, Econometrica, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5457-17. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, August 2019. Supplementary Appendix. Replication Files. Download Paper. "Horizon-Dependent Risk Pricing: Evidence from Short-Dated Options." Lazarus, Eben, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5766-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2019. Download Paper. "Restrictions on Asset-Price Movements Under Rational Expectations: Theory and Evidence." Augenblick, Ned and Eben Lazarus, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5765-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2019. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Meet MIT Sloans 11 new faculty members The new professors bring interest and instruction in machine learning, human behavior, industrial organization, and more. Aug 30, 2018 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
