Jordan Nickerson | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jordan Nickerson Support Staff Rianna Allen-Charles (617) 452-3417 rallen@mit.edu Get in Touch JORDO@MIT.EDU Title Visiting Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Jordan Nickerson is a Visiting Professor in Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Nickerson is a native Texan, earning both his BS in mathematics and PhD in finance from the University of Texas in Austin. Following his graduation in 2014, he held a position at Boston College as an Assistant Professor of Finance. Nickerson's research is a mix of both theoretical and empirical and covers a wide range of topics, including research in structured finance products, credit ratings, corporate finance, and household finance. His research generally makes use of unique settings, such as public school teachers, to study the behavior of households and firms. His research has been published in leading peer-reviewed journals, including the Review of Financial Studies, Journal of Financial Economics, and the Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Are ratings askew in collateralized loan obligations? A new study finds credit agency ratings dont reflect the risk profile of collateralized loan obligations, a challenge for investors and policymakers alike. Oct 20, 2020 Read Article Press Study: significant disconnect between credit agency ratings, CLO risk Ratings agencies could be using subjective factors to assign risk; or portfolio managers could be strategically using window-dressing to make CLOs appear less risky. Oct 8, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: MarketWatch (Opinion Piece) How Uber, Lyft and other gig work provides a safety net for Americans th... Oct 21, 2020 "Overall, our analysis suggests that Uber alters labor market dynamics by increasing the pool of easily accessible short-term jobs." Faculty: Jordan Nickerson Source: Value Walk How the gig economy is benefiting unemployment claims Oct 8, 2020 In his study, Visiting Prof. Jordan Nickerson noted that the gig economy allows people to find work quickly with a flexible schedule. Faculty: Jordan Nickerson The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
