Matthew Rhodes-Kropf | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Matthew Rhodes-Kropf Support Staff Robert Kissinger (617) 253-7006 rkissing@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-613 MATTRK@MIT.EDU (617) 715-4673 Title Visiting Associate Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Matthew Rhodes-Kropf is a Visiting Associate Professor in the Finance department at MIT Sloan where he teaches entrepreneurship. Rhodes-Kropf is also a managing partner at Tectonic Ventures as well as a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research.Rhodes-Kropfs research on venture capital and exits has been published in many leading finance and economic journals. His work seeks to understand how capital markets interact with the creation of new firms, their financing, growth, governance, and their ultimate exit through a successful IPO or sale or through failure. He has published in leading finance and economic journals, includingThe Journal of Finance,Journal of Financial Economics,Review of Financial Studies,The RAND Journal of Economics, and The Journal of Business. His 2004 paper "Market Valuation and Merger Waves," published inThe Journal of Finance, was nominated for the Brattle Prize for Best Paper in Corporate Finance in 2005.Previously a faculty member in the Entrepreneurial Management department at Harvard Business School, Rhodes-Kropf has also published many HBS cases. His work has been profiled in theFinancial Times, The Economist, the MIT Sloan Management Review,Kauffman publications,Institutional Investors Alpha Magazine, PeHub, and many popular blogs. He is regularly quoted in major print media such asTheWall Street Journal, The New York Times, and theFinancial Times, and has discussed his work on television, with appearances on CNBC, BBC, and CNN. Matt gives talks throughout the world on the financing of innovation. At Harvard Matt taught the VCPE (venture capital and private equity) course in the MBA elective curriculum and in executive education programs. He also oversees myriad student ventures and has advised literally hundreds of founders. He was also formerly the Daniel W. Stanton Associate Professor of Business at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, where he taught entrepreneurial finance and received the Deans Award for Teaching Excellence.Rhodes-Kropf is also a managing partner at Tectonic Ventures. Previously he founded RK Ventures, the predecessor to Tectonic, where he managed two successful funds. Matt invested in companies such as Rackspace, Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Xenex, Kymeta, Humatics, and Axioma among others. Matt was formerly the cfo of Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, where he worked with the founder to launch the firm and the worlds first Alzheimers imaging agent. Matt also helped launch a hedge fund as the coo, and has advised many financial firms including Correlation Ventures. Matt is presently a director at 55ip, Avant-garde Health, Wayscript, Wyebot, Xenex, and an advisor to Humatics and Vecna. Additionally, Matt is on the board of Neighborhood Trust, and the advisory board for Duke Universitys Innovation and Entrepreneurship program (I&E Board).A graduate of Duke University, Rhodes-Kropf holds a BA in computer science and economics and a PhD in economics. Matt was formerly the chairman of the advisory board for Duke Universitys Graduate School. Publications SSRN "Financing Risk and Innovation." Nanda, Ramana, and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Financing Entrepreneurial Experimentation." Nanda, Ramana, and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf. In Innovation Policy and the Economy, Vol. 16, 1-23. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2016. "Regional Variation in Venture Capital: Causes and Consequences." Ramana Nanda and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf. In Moving to the Innovation Frontier, edited by Christian Keuschnigg, Washington, DC: March 2016. "Avid Radiopharmaceuticals and Lighthouse Capital Partners." Matthew Rhodes-Kropf and Ann Leamon. In Harvard Business School Case 810-054, Cambridge, MA: September 2015. "Financing Experiments." Nanda, Ramana, and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf. Science Vol. 348, No. 6240 (2015): 1200-1212. "Is a VC Partnership Greater than the Sum of its Partners?" Ewens, Michael, and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf. Journal of Finance Vol. 70, No. 3 (2015): 1081-1113. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Radical innovation needs a hot market. So now what? Research shows investors take on riskier projects in a hot market. Heres how entrepreneurs should adjust when that market cools. Jan 29, 2019 Read Article Press MIT Sloan study shows how technology shocks lead to innovation A recent study by MIT Sloan Visiting Associate Prof. of Finance Matthew Rhodes-Kropf systematically documents how technological shocks have substantially lowered the cost of starting new businesses. Mar 1, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: MarketWatch Why it pays to be cautious about stocks when corporate mega-mergers come... Sep 17, 2019 Faculty: Matthew Rhodes-Kropf The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
