John S. Carroll | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John S. Carroll Support Staff Patty Charest (617) 253-5701 pcharest@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-318 jcarroll@mit.edu (617) 253-2617 (617) 253-2660 Title Gordon Kaufman Professor of Management, Emeritus Professor of Organization Studies and Engineering Systems 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy MIT Leadership Center Sociotechnical Systems Research Center John Carroll is the Gordon Kaufman Professor of Management, Emeritus and a Professor Post Tenure of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He was also Professor of Engineering Systems until 2015 and served as Co-Director of MIT's Lean Advancement Initiative (LAI) 2003-2013.Carroll is an excellent source for information on individual and group decision making, with a focus on its relationship to organizational learning and change practices such as self-assessment and root cause analysis. His recent work focuses on industries that manage significant hazards, such as nuclear power, petrochemicals, and healthcare. He has examined the relationships among leadership, management philosophies, teamwork, mental models, safety culture, and human performance improvement.Carroll holds a BS in physics from MIT, as well as an MA and a PhD in social psychology from Harvard University. Publications "Chapter 3: Three Lenses for Understanding Reliable, Safe and Effective Organizations: Strategic Design, Political, and Cultural Approaches." Carroll, John S. In Organizing for Reliability: A Guide for Research and Practice, edited by Karlene H. Roberts and Ranga Ramanujam, Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2018. "Transformation of the US Army Behavioral Health System of Care: An Organizational Analysis Using the 'Three Lenses'." Srinivasan, Jayakanth, Julia DiBenigno, and John S. Carroll. Journal of Organizational Behavior Education Vol. 10, (2018): 5-28. "Chapter 7: Understanding Safety Management Through Strategic Design, Political, and Cultural Approaches." Carroll, John S. In How Could This Happen? Managing Errors in Organizations, edited by Jan U. Hagen, 129-148. Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan, 2018. The Value of Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences to National Priorities. Leshner, Alan I., John S. Carroll, Ivy Estabrook, Ralph M. Garruto, Kathleen Mullan Harris, Ron Haskins, Edward H. Kaplan, Ronald D. Lee, Robert Moffitt, Duncan Watts, and Yannis C. Yortsos. Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2017. "Chapter 5: Safety Culture Assessment and Measurement." Carroll, John S., David Hofmann, William Hoyle, and Timothy Vogus. In Committee on Offshore Oil and Gas Safety Culture, Strengthening the Safety Culture of the Offshore Oil and Gas Industry, 138-170. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2016. "Chapter 6: Implementing Change in Offshore Safety Culture." Carroll, John S., James C. Card, Karlene H. Roberts, Peter K. Velez, and Warner Williams. In Committee on Offshore Oil and Gas Safety Culture, Strengthening the Safety Culture of the Offshore Oil and Gas Industry, 171-199. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2016. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
