Janice Klein | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Janice Klein Get in Touch Building E40-315 jklein@mit.edu (978) 335-3246 (617) 253-1462 Title Senior Lecturer, Organizational Change 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Janice Klein is a Senior Lecturer in Organizational Change at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Klein currently teaches leadership in the Leaders for Global Operations (LGO) and System and Design Management (SDM) programs. Her recent research, summarized in True Change: How Outsiders on the Inside Get Things Done in Organizations (Jossey-Bass, 2004), explores knowledge transfer and the application of new ideas and concepts at the workplace. In addition, she leads a multidisciplinary research team investigating virtual collaboration and the development and maintenance of high-performance globally dispersed teams. Kleins earlier research has focused on aligning operations and human resource strategies in the areas of job design, team leadership, employee empowerment, and organizational change. She is a graduate of General Electric Companys Manufacturing Management Program. During her years at GE (19721981), she held various manufacturing and human resource management positions. In addition, she coordinated several organizational change efforts aimed at increasing employee involvement. Klein has consulted on teams and organizational change with United Technologies, Xerox, Hewlett-Packard, and Goodyear. Her publications include, Why Supervisors Resist Employee Involvement (Harvard Business Review, August/September 1984), The Human Costs of Manufacturing Reform (Harvard Business Review, March/April, 1989), and Job Design (The Handbook of Technology Management, 1998). Her textbook, Revitalizing Manufacturing: Text and Cases (Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin, Inc., 1990), focuses on the implementation of new manufacturing systems and technologies. Klein holds a BS in industrial engineering from Iowa State University, an MBA from Boston University, and a PhD in industrial relations from the MIT Sloan School of Management. Publications True Change: How Outsiders on the Inside Get Things Done in Organizations. Jossey-Bass, 2004. Klein, Janice. 2004. The American Edge : Leveraging Manufacturing's Hidden Assets. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1993. Klein, Janice. 1993. Revitalizing Manufacturing : Text and Cases. Homewood, IL.: Irwin, 1990. Klein, Janice. 1990. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
