John L. Akula | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John L. Akula Support Staff Patty Charest (617) 253-5701 pcharest@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-316 jakula@mit.edu (617) 452-3619 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jakula/ Title Senior Lecturer, Law 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Law Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship John Akula is a Senior Lecturer in Law at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Akula has primary responsibility for the MIT Sloan business law curriculum. His courses focus on the law-sensitive skills needed by those involved in startups, hi-growth, and established companies, and the risks and opportunities associated with entrepreneurship, complex transactions and finance, and innovation and cutting-edge technologies.Akula earned a doctorate at Harvard University, where he was a National Science Foundation Pre-Doctoral Fellow and a Russell Sage Foundation Postdoctoral fellow. While there, his research focused on the evolution of effective legal commitments. He then completed a law degree at Harvard, after which he spent 15 years practicing law, including a clerkship for a justice of the highest court in Massachusetts. Akula was a partner at Herrick & Smith; when that firm dissolved in 1985, he then joined Goodwin Procter, one of the nations leading law firms, as a partner in its business law department. As a practicing lawyer, Akula worked with senior managers and boards in a broad range of industries, including financial services and healthcare. His typical role was as managing partner for clients for whom the firm was general counsel, and he thus dealt with a broad range of legal issues. He also had a substantial trade association practice, and was heavily involved in the drafting of legislation and regulation.In 1991, Akula left the practice of law to return to the academic world. He initially divided his time between Harvards Kennedy School of Government and MIT Sloan, but since 2000 has been exclusively at MIT. In addition to his regular teaching, he is active in the schools executive education, international, and entrepreneurship-related programs.Akula holds a BA from Columbia University, a PhD in sociology from Harvard University, and a JD from Harvard University. Publications "Sovereign Immunity And Health Care: Can Government Be Trusted?" Akula, John L. Health Affairs Vol. 19, No. 6 (2000): 152-167. "Business crime: What to do when the law pursues you?" Akula, John L. MIT Sloan Management Review (2000): 29-41. "Insolvency Risk in Health Carriers: Innovation, Competition, and Public Protection." Akula, John L. Vol. 16, No. 1 (1997): 9-33. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter New MIT Sloan courses cover emergent ideas New and updated this spring: analytics for innovation; the changing global economy; digital technology and the law. Jan 25, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 4 fresh courses for fall From blockchain to machine learning, here are the new MIT courses that are generating attention. Sep 5, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Clear Admit A day in the life at MIT Sloan Oct 25, 2019 Faculty: John L. Akula Arnold I. Barnett Christopher F. Noe Haoxiang Zhu Louis Anthony Rodriques The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
