John Carrier | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John Carrier Get in Touch Building E62-TBD jfcarrie@mit.edu (617) 939-4396 Title Senior Lecturer, System Dynamics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups System Dynamics Academic Area Management Science John Carrier is a Senior Lecturer of System Dynamics at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Carrier instructs senior managers on improving manufacturing and business processes and serves as an on-site coach in support of projects. His research focuses on strategic marketing and new business development in high technology, specialty chemicals, and service segments. Carrier has more than 15 years of experience in a variety of corporate, entrepreneurial, and consulting environments. Since 2006, he has worked with Arsenal Capital Partners as director of Six Sigma, where he is responsible for increasing portfolio company valuation by adapting and applying Six Sigma techniques to midsize companies. Carrier also handles due diligence, post-merger integrations, and financial analysis and improvement. Prior to joining Arsenal Capital Partners, he was employed by Grace Construction Products; Bain & Company, Inc.; and SuperCool LLC. Carrier holds a BS in chemical engineering from the University of Michigan, a PhD in chemical engineering from MIT, and an MBA from Harvard Business School. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A 4-step process for recovering from business disruption Firms disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic must position themselves for recovery. The militarys OODA process can help. Jun 23, 2020 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
