Aithan Shapira | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Aithan Shapira Support Staff Ariel Brandner (617) 253-6605 abrandne@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62 ashapira@mit.edu (617) 955-6879 Title Lecturer, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Aithan Shapira (MFA PhD) is an internationally acclaimed artist and Lecturer at MIT Sloan.As facilitator and executive coach, he draws on 20+ years of experience helping individuals and organizations to unlock their creative capacities in order to innovate at the speed of change. He is the founder of Tilt, a culture design and transformation firm focused on change-ability enabling global leaders, organizations, and governments to instill cultural conditions that are more collaborative, adaptive, and transformational.Aithan serves on McKinsey's think tank for Advancing Adult Learning and Development and has pioneered progressive curricula at the edge of leadership and skills retraining for the future of work at MIT Sloan, Harvard iLab, Stanford d.school, and the Berklee Institute for Creative Entrepreneurship.Aithan developed his research on the creative process at the Royal College of Art & Design, lived in an Australian Aboriginal community for three years to study arts impact on cultures of survival, and continues to be a visiting critic at arts institutions internationally. He exhibits his artwork in museums and galleries in New York, London, and Miami. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Leadership cues to take from performers and artists The art of leadership requires putting theories into practice. Painters, musicians, and acrobats can be some of the best teachers. Jul 1, 2020 Read Article Press MIT Sloan course combines art and leadership to translate capabilities into practice In "Leadership in Practice: Making and Learning," MIT Sloan students integrate the MIT Leadership Capabilities model with arts processes and experiential sessions. Mar 2, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Spark team creativity by embracing uncertainty Jan 7, 2020 Faculty: Aithan Shapira The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
