Rodrigo Verdi | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Rodrigo Verdi curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-666 rverdi@mit.edu (617) 253-2956 (617) 253-0603 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rverdi/ Title Nanyang Technological University Professor of Accounting Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Rodrigo Verdi is the Nanyang Technological University Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is currently a senior editor at the Journal of Accounting Research.Verdi has broad interest in capital markets research in accounting and finance. His past research investigates the economic consequences of financial reporting quality to investment efficiency and to the cost of capital. He also has studied the interaction between accounting information, voluntary disclosure, and market efficiency. Overall, Verdis research provides insights into the role of accounting information in corporate finance decisions and in capital markets behavior. His research has been published in The Accounting Review, Journal of Accounting Research, Journal of Accounting and Economics, and Journal of Financial Economics. His research has also received the Distinguished Contributions and Best Paper Award recognitions by the American Accounting Association. Earlier, Verdi served asan editoratThe Accounting Reviewand an associate editor at Management Science.Verdi holds a PhD from the University of Pennsylvania. Honors Verdi wins teaching award Rodrigo Verdi has won a 2020 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for his work teaching on campus and/or remotely. Verdi won the award along with fellow Sloan faculty members Kara Blackburn, Vivek Farias, Michelle Hanlon, Alexandre Jacquillat, Miro Kazakoff, and Ben Shields. These student-nominated awards recognize faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.This recognition also gives the MIT community the opportunity to learn from their innovative practices. The awards were co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.This year, students submitted a total of 487 nominations for 232 faculty and instructors, and 30 winners were selected by Dean of Digital Learning Krishna Rajagopal and Vice Chancellor Ian Waitz, with help from MIT Open Learning staff. Read More Rodrigo Verdi receives American Accounting Association Award Rodrigo Verdi has received the 2016 American Accounting Association (AAA) Distinguished Contribution to Accounting Literature Award, which recognizes accounting research of exceptional merit that has significantly impacted the discipline over a period of at least five years. Verdi was recognized for his 2008 paper (co-authored by Holger Daske, University of Mannheim, Luzi Hail, Wharton, and Christian Leuz, Chicago Booth) entitled,Mandatory IFRS Reporting Around the World: Early Evidence on the Economic Consequences.. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Calendar Rotations: A New Approach for Studying the Impact of Timing using Earnings Announcements." Noh, Suzy, Eric So, and Rodrigo Verdi, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5666-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2019. "Do Firms Strategically Internalize Disclosure Spillovers? Evidence from Cash-Financed M&As." Kim, Jinhwan, Rodrigo Verdi, and Benjamin Yost, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5868-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2019. "CEO Tax Effects on Acquisition Structure and Value." Hanlon, Michelle, Rodrigo Verdi, and Benjamin Yost, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5867-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2019. "The Effects of Financial Reporting and Disclosure on Corporate Investment: A Review." Roychowdhury, Sugata, Nemit Shroff, and Rodrigo Verdi. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 68, No. 2-3 (2019): 101246. Download Paper. "Public Financial Statements and Private Firm Equity Financing." Verdi, Rodrigo, Brian Baik, and Natalie Berfeld, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5869-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2019. "The Pecking Order and Financing Decisions: Evidence from Changes to Financial Reporting Regulation." Naranjo, Patricia L., Daniel Saavedra, and Rodrigo Verdi, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5870-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2018. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Tips for digital teaching from prizewinning professors Distance learning is now standard, whether hybrid or fully online. Heres how to excel at remote teaching, according to five MIT Sloan faculty members. Aug 25, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter When companies report earnings, going first helps Research shows firms that report early in the earnings queue earn more media coverage, heightened attention from investors, and a bump in trading volume. Apr 7, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants 2019 Best EMBAs: Christopher J. Kwolek, MIT Sloan Jun 29, 2019 Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Roberto Fernandez Retsef Levi Rodrigo Verdi The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
