Susan Silbey | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Susan Silbey Get in Touch Building E53-335D ssilbey@mit.edu (617) 253-6952 Title Leon and Anne Goldberg Professor of Humanities Professor of Sociology and Anthropology 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Institute for Work and Employment Research Professor Susan S. Silbey is Leon and Anne Goldberg Professor of Humanities, Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, and Professor of Behavioral and Policy Sciences, Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Silbey is interested in the governance, regulatory and audit processes in complex organizations. Her current research focuses on the creation of management systems for containing risks, including ethical lapses, as well as environment, health and safety hazards.Previous books includeThe Common Place of Law: Stories from Everyday Life(with Patricia Ewick) (1998),In Litigation: Do the 'Haves' Still Come Out Ahead(with Herbert Kritzer) (2003),Law and Science (I): Epistemological, Evidentiary, and Relational Engagements, andLaw and Science (II): Regulation of Property, Practices, and Products(2008).Silbey is the recipient of numerous prizes and awards including a John Simon Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship (2009), Doctor Honoris Causa from Ecole Normale Superiere Cachan in Paris (2006) and the Harry Kalven Jr. Prize for advancing the sociology of law (2009). She is Past President of the Law & Society Association, and a fellow of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. Publications "Governing Inside the Organiztion: Interpreting Regulation and Compliance - Forthcoming." Gray, Garry and Susan S. Silbey. American Journal of Sociology. Forthcoming. "The Availability of Law Redux: The Correlation of Rights and Duties." Silbey, Susan S. Law & Society Review Vol. 48, No. 2 (2014): 297-310. "The Courts in American Public Culture." Silbey, Susan S. Daedalus, the Journal of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences Vol. 143, No. 3 (2014): 140-156. "Constructing Consequences for Compliance The Case of Academic Laboratories." Huising, Ruthanne, and Susan S. Silbey. The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science Vol. 649, No. 1 (2013): 157-177. "Are You Ready to Listen?" Silbey, Susan. Ethnographic Studies No. 13 (2013): 74-81. "Organizational Challenges to Regulatory Enforcement and Compliance A New Common Sense About Regulation." Silbey, Susan S. The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science Vol. 649, No. 1 (2013): 6-20. Load More Media Highlights Source: LSE Business Review (Opinion Piece) Bias and belief in meritocracy in AI and engineering Apr 3, 2019 Faculty: Susan Silbey The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
