Thomas W. Malone | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Thomas W. Malone twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Elizabeth McFall (617) 253-7273 MCFALL@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-424 malone@mit.edu (617) 253-6843 (617) 258-7579 http://cci.mit.edu/malone Title Patrick J. McGovern (1959) Professor of Management Professor, Information Technology Director, MIT Center for Collective Intelligence 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Information Systems Research MIT Center for Collective Intelligence The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Thomas W. Malone is the Patrick J. McGovern (1959) Professor of Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management and the founding director of the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence. At MIT, he is also a Professor of Information Technology and a Professor of Work and Organizational Studies. Previously, he was the founder and director of the MIT Center for Coordination Science and one of the two founding codirectors of the MIT Initiative on Inventing the Organizations of the 21st Century. Malone teaches classes on organizational design, information technology, and leadership, and his research focuses on how new organizations can be designed to take advantage of the possibilities provided by information technology.Malone predicted in an article published in 1987 many of the major developments in electronic business over the following 25 years, including electronic buying and selling for many kinds of products. In 2004, Malone summarized two decades of his research in his critically acclaimed book, The Future of Work. His newest book, Superminds, appeared in May 2018. Malone has also published over 100 articles, research papers, and book chapters. He is the coeditor of four books.Malone has been a cofounder of four software companies and has consulted and served as a board member for a number of other organizations. He is also an inventor with 11 patents.His background includes work as a research scientist at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC), a PhD from Stanford University, an honorary doctorate from the University of Zurich, and degrees in applied mathematics, engineering, and psychology. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication Superminds: The Surprising Power of People and Computers Thinking Together. Malone, Thomas W. New York, NY: Little, Brown and Company, 2018. "Online Mingling: Supporting Ad Hoc, Private Conversations at Virtual Conferences." Song, Jaeyoon, Christoph Riedl, and Thomas W. Malone, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6159-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2020. "Collective Intelligence." Malone, Thomas W., and Anita W. Woolley. In Cambridge Handbook of Intelligence, edited by Robert J. Sternberg, 780-801. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2020. "How Can Human-Computer Superminds Develop Business Strategies?" Malone, Thomas W. In Superminds: The Surprising Power of People and Computers Thinking Together, edited by Franz Heukamp and Jordi Canals, 165-183. London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2020. "What AI Will Do to Corporate Hierarchies." Malone, Thomas W. Wall Street Journal, April 1, 2019. "The Impact of Cognitive Style Diversity on Implicit Learning in Teams." Aggarwal, Ishani, Anita W. Woolley, Christopher F. Chabris, and Thomas W. Malone. Frontiers in Psychology Vol. 10, (2019): 1-112. Load More Recent Insights Press Minglr: New open source software supports impromptu conversations Those ad-hoc interactions are what people miss in todays work-from-home environment. Aug 4, 2020 Read Article Press Pandemic Response CoLab: New initiative to solve COVID-19 challenges The initiative is open to individuals, businesses and groups with the goal of developing a diverse, global community of problem solvers. Jul 1, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Fast Company Zoom calls can be too formal. These alternatives encourage casual chatti... Oct 6, 2020 Minglr, an open-source tool from a team led by Tom Malone, is designed to connect attendees at virtual conferences for brief video conversations. Faculty: Thomas W. Malone Source: MIT Technology Review Remote workers want to re-create those watercooler moments, virtually Aug 17, 2020 Tom Malone refused to believe that water-cooler conversations were dead, so he developed Minglr, an open source meeting software. Faculty: Thomas W. Malone Source: Quartz Water cooler moments don't have to disappear in the virtual workplace Aug 12, 2020 The most important part of conferences by far is what happens in the hallways, he said, not what happens in the meeting rooms. Faculty: Thomas W. Malone Source: AiThority MIT Sloan creates "Minglr" Aug 4, 2020 I think ad-hoc interactions...are among the most important things that people miss in today's work-from-home environment. Faculty: Thomas W. Malone Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
