David C. Schmittlein | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty David C. Schmittlein curriculum vitae Support Staff Tammy L Holmstrom (617) 253-7150 tholmstr@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E60-316 dschmitt@mit.edu (617) 253-2804 Title John C Head III Dean Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science David Schmittlein is the John C Head III Dean and Professor of Marketing at the MIT Sloan School of Management.As dean, Schmittleins focus has been to broaden MIT Sloans global visibility, to work with the faculty in creating new high-quality management education programs, to develop enhanced educational opportunities for current students, and to develop and disseminate business knowledge that has impact and that will stand the test of time. He also has engaged the many members of MITs alumni community to gain their valuable insights on MIT Sloan and management education.Prior to his appointment at MIT Sloan, Schmittlein was the Ira A. Lipman Professor and Professor of Marketing at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania from 1980 until 2007. He also served as Interim Dean during July 2007 and as Deputy Dean from 2000 to 2007, and was chair of the editorial board for Wharton School Publishing. His research assesses marketing processes and develops methods for improving marketing decisions. He is widely regarded for his work estimating the impact of a firms marketing actions, designing market and survey research, and creating effective communication strategies.Schmittlein has served as a consultant on these issues for numerous firms, including American Express, American Home Products, AT&T, Bausch & Lomb, Boston Scientific, Ford Motor Company, Gianni Versace S.p.A., Hewlett-Packard, Johnson & Johnson, Lockheed Martin, Pfizer, Revlon, Siebe PLC, the Oakland Raiders, The Quaker Oats Co., and Time Warner. His work has been published in leading journals in marketing, management, economics, and statistics. In addition, he has been an area editor for Marketing Science and a member of the editorial board for the Journal of Interactive Marketing, the Journal of Marketing Research, Marketing Letters, and Marketing Science.Schmittlein is an Honorary Professor at the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management. He serves on the Asia School of Business Board of Governors; the Governing Board of the Indian School of Business; the International Advisory Board of Lingnan (University) College of Sun Yat-sen University; the Advisory Board for the School of Economics and Management of Tsinghua University; and the International Advisory Board for the School of Management, Fudan University. He has served on the World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council for Marketing and Branding. He has been a Visiting Professor in the Faculty of Economics at Tokyo University and a Distinguished Scholar in Residence at the Olin Business School, Washington University in St. Louis. Schmittlein has received awards for his research, his editorial work, and his teaching. His observations and research have been cited often in the popular press, including AdAge, Businessweek, China.com, Computerworld, Fortune, NPRs Marketplace, Peoples Daily Online, Reuters, The Economist, the Financial Times, the Los Angeles Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, U.S. News & World Report, and USA Today.Schmittlein holds a BA in mathematics from Brown University and an MPhil and a PhD in business from Columbia University. Publications "A Live Baby or Your Money Back: The Marketing of In Vitro Fertilization Procedures." Schmittlein, David C. and Donald G. Morrison. Management Science Vol. 49, No. 12 (2003): 16171635. "Cross-National Empirical Generalization of a Supplier Selection and Usage Model for Global Business Services." Bowman, Douglas, John U. Farley and David C. Schmittlein. Journal of International Business Studies Vol. 31, No. 4 (2000): 667685. "The Little Engines That Could: Modeling the Performance of World Wide Web Search Engines." Bradlow, Eric T. and David C. Schmittlein. Marketing Science Vol. 19, No. 1 (2000): 43-62. "The Distribution of Survey Contact and Participation in America: Constructing a Survey-Based Estimate." Bickart, Barbara and David C. Schmittlein. Journal of Marketing Research Vol. 36, No. 2 (1999): 286-294. "Testing New Direct Marketing Offerings: The Interplay of Management Judgment and Statistical Models." Morwitz, Vicki and David C. Schmittlein. Management Science Vol. 44, No. 5 (1998): 610-628. "It Takes A Hot Goalie To Raise the Stanley Cup: The Role of Team Ability, Home Ice, and the Hot Hand in the Stanley Cup Finals." Morrison, Donald G. and David C. Schmittlein. Chance, 1998. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan launches the MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance Available on the edX platform, the program offers individuals an opportunity to enhance their financial skill set or fast-track a masters degree in finance from MIT Sloan. Jan 15, 2020 Read Article Press MIT Sloan to hold Finance Beyond Crisis conference MIT Sloan School of Management will host an MIT Sloan Idea Exchange alumni conference on April 25, 2019 in New York City. Apr 5, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants After months of delay, tens of thousands sign up for new MIT Sloan progr... Sep 2, 2020 The MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance is designed to meet the growing demand for the skills and expertise required for a career in finance. Faculty: Leonid Kogan Egor Matveyev David C. Schmittlein Staff: Heidi Pickett Source: Clear Admit Business schools taking the initiative to increase diversity in MBA prog... Aug 17, 2020 Dean Schmittlein announced the MIT Sloan Endowment for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion with the commitment of $5 million in new endowed funds. Faculty: David C. Schmittlein Source: Poets & Quants 2020 Best & Brightest MBAs: Celi Khanyile-Lynch, MIT (Sloan) May 1, 2020 As Co-President of the Student Body, she helped expand Sloans' diversity and inclusion, community service, and STEM certification for MBAs. Faculty: David C. Schmittlein Staff: Maura Herson Source: MIT Sloan Management Review The new leadership playbook for the digital age Jan 22, 2020 Faculty: Douglas Ready David C. Schmittlein Staff: Michael Schrage David Kiron Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
