Sean Peter Willems | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Sean Peter Willems Support Staff Annie Burrell (617) 253-2656 aburrell@mit.edu Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-5 willems@mit.edu (617) 715-2620 Title Visiting Professor, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Publications "Strategic Inventory Placement in Supply Chains: Non-Stationary Demand." Graves, Stephen C. and Sean P. Willems. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Vol. 10, No. 2 (2008): 278-287. "Optimizing the Supply-Chain Configuration for New Products." Graves, Stephen C. and Sean P. Willems. Management Science Vol. 51, No. 8 (2005): 1165-1180. "Strategic Inventory Placement in Supply Chains: Nonstationary Demand." Graves, Stephen C. and Sean P. Willems, Working Paper. 2002. "Optimizing Strategic Safety Stock Placement in Supply Chains." Stephen C. Graves and Sean P. Willems. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Vol. 2, No. 1 (2000): 68-83. Long version. "Optimizing the Supply-Chain Configuration for New Products." Stephen C. Graves and Sean P. Willems. In Proceedings of the 2000 MSOM Conference , Catonsville, MD: June 2000. Recent Insights Press A home video studio to approximate the on-campus, in-person experience "As educators, its incumbent on us to create virtual environments where students engage with the material and with each other in a manner that fosters critical thinking and shared learning. Sep 30, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The Hechinger Report Proof points: The $25,000 Zoom rig designed to 'shock and awe' students Oct 12, 2020 "I wanted to find a way to keep them in the moment. My big thing about teaching is to always be in the moment. Faculty: Sean Peter Willems The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
