Tavneet Suri | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Tavneet Suri twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff John Tracey-Ursprung (617) 253-8318 jtracey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-524 tavneet@mit.edu (617) 253-7159 (617) 258-6786 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/tsuri/ Title Louis E. Seley Professor of Applied Economics Associate Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Tavneet Suri is the Louis E. Seley Professor of Applied Economics and an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Her expertise is in the role of technology in Sub-Saharan Africa.Tavneet is editor-in-chief of VoxDev; Scientific Director for Africa for J-PAL; CoChair of the Agricultural Technology Adoption Initiative at J-PAL; Chair of the Digital Identification and Finance Initiative at J-PAL Africa; and a Faculty Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research.She holds a BA in economics from Cambridge University, UK, and an MA in International and Development Economics (IDE) and a PhD in economics, both from Yale University. Honors Vivek Farias and Tavneet Suri have each received funding from the Solomon Buchsbaum Research Fund Vivek Farias and Tavneet Suri have each received approval from the MIT Research Support Committee for $50,000 of funding from the Solomon Buchsbaum Research Fund. This fund's purpose is "to launch new research initiatives that cut across disciplinary lines" in "support of innovative ideas advanced primarily by young faculty." Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "The Long-run Poverty and Gender Impacts of Mobile Money." Suri, Tavneet, and William Jack. Science Vol. 354, No. 6317 (2016): 1288-1292. Featured Publication "Risk Sharing and Transaction Costs: Evidence from Kenya's Mobile Money Revolution." Jack, William, and Tavneet Suri. American Economic Review Vol. 104, No. 1 (2014): 183-223. Download Appendix. "Effects of a Universal Basic Income During the Pandemic." Abhijit Banerjee, Michael Faye, Alan Krueger, Paul Niehaus, and Tavneet Suri, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6171-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, September 2020. "Universal Basic Income in the Developing World." Banerjee, Abhijit V., Paul Niehaus, and Tavneet Suri. Annual Review of Economics Vol. 11, (2019): 959-983. Download Paper. "Agricultural Technology and Nutrition in Sierra Leone." Suri, Tavneet, and Rachel Glennerster, Working Paper. 2018. "Can Digital Loans Deliver? Take Up and Impacts of Digital Loans in Kenya." Bharadwaj, Prashant, William Jack, and Tavneet Suri, Working Paper. 2018. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How 75 cents a day helped Kenyans weather bad times A new study suggests that a universal basic income provided stability to impoverished Kenyans in bad times. Could UBI work elsewhere? Oct 1, 2020 Read Article Press A Universal Basic Income could help the worlds poorest weather crises A new study examining the effect of Universal Basic Income (UBI) in Kenya shows that cash transfers improved recipients food security and health and these gains sustained through the policy responses Sep 30, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Conversation (Opinion Piece) Universal basic income helped Kenyans weather COVID-19 - but it's not a ... Nov 15, 2020 "The onset of the coronavirus prompted my colleagues and I to look at how universal basic income affected how people coped with a severe shock." Faculty: Tavneet Suri The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
