Roberto Fernandez | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Roberto Fernandez curriculum vitae Support Staff Patty Charest (617) 253-5701 pcharest@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-387 robertof@mit.edu (617) 253-7256 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rfernandez/ Title William F. Pounds Professor in Management Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Roberto M. Fernandez is the William F. Pounds Professor in Management and a Professor of Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Fernandez currently serves as the co-director of the Economic Sociology PhD Program and served as the head of the Behavioral and Policy Sciences area from 2008-2010. His research focuses on the areas of organizations, social networks, and race and gender stratification. Fernandez has extensive experience doing field research in organizations, including an exhaustive five-year case study of a plant retooling and relocation. His current research focuses on the organizational processes surrounding the hiring of new talent using data collected in 14 organizations. He is the author of more than 50 articles and research papers published in top academic journals in his field. Fernandez holds a BA in sociology from Harvard University and an MA and a PhD in sociology from the University of Chicago. Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Strength of Weak Ties in the Labor Market: An Assessment of the State of Research." Fernandez, Roberto. In Frontiers of Ego-Network Analysis, edited by Bernice Pescosolidio, Brea Perry, Mario Small, and Ned Smith, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming. "Who's Closure? Gender Inequality and Access to Skill Training." Christian Hunkler and Roberto M. Fernandez. In Proceedings of the ESA Economic Sociology Midterm Conference, Konstanz, Germany: Forthcoming. "Networks for the Unemployed?" Bond, Brittany, and Roberto Fernandez. In Social Networks at Work, edited by Daniel J. Brass and Stephen P. Borgatti, 275-307. New York, NY: Routledge, 2020. "Gender Composition of Job Queues and Gender Disparities in Hiring." Campero, Santiago, and Roberto Fernandez. Social Forces Vol. 97, No. 4 (2019): 1487-1516. "Network Recruitment and the Glass Ceiling: Evidence from Two Firms." Fernandez, Roberto, and Brian Rubineau. RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences Vol. 5, No. 3 (2019): 88-102. "Worker Morale and Effort: Is the Relationship Causal?" Hassink, Wolter H.J., and Roberto Fernandez. The Manchester School Vol. 86, No. 6 (2018): 816-839. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Root out compensation bias and improve your bottom line Even for the well-intentioned, gender and racial pay equity is elusive. A fair starting line, real transparency, and long-term commitment are a must. Apr 17, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 3 research papers point to new approaches in employment equity Its not about fixing the pipeline. Its about making it bigger. Aug 8, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants 2019 Best EMBAs: Christopher J. Kwolek, MIT Sloan Jun 29, 2019 Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Roberto Fernandez Retsef Levi Rodrigo Verdi The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
