Glen Urban | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Glen Urban curriculum vitae Support Staff Briana Blake (617) 324-4095 brianabl@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-533 glurban@mit.edu (617) 253-6615 (617) 258-7597 http://glenurban.com Title David Austin Professor in Marketing, Emeritus MIT Sloan School Dean, Emeritus Professor, Marketing, Emeritus Dean Emeritus; Chairman, MIT Center for Digital Business 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Virtual Customer Initiative Glen Urban is the David Austin Professor in Marketing, Emeritus, and MIT Sloan School Dean, Emeritus.Urban concentrates on the fascinating area of trust-based marketing on the Internet. In particular, he explores how trust is built on a website, how site design can maximize sales and trust, and how a trust-based marketing system could provide an alternative to the push type of marketing commonly observed. He has examined the use of consumer storytelling to improve brand social media effectiveness and trust. Recent research has focused on morphing ads and websites to match individual consumer cognitive styles. His most current research concentrates on use of deep learning algorithms and big data to improve marketing efficiency.Urban holds a BS in mechanical engineering and an MBA from the University of Wisconsin as well as a PhD in marketing from Northwestern University. Honors Glen Urban was named a Fellow of ISMS at the 2009 INFORMS Marketing Science Conference Glen Urban was named a Fellow of ISMS (the INFORMS Society for Marketing Science) at the 2009 INFORMS Marketing Science Conference, held earlier this month at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. The Fellows Awards are given in recognition of cumulative long-term contributions in research, practice, education, and service to the ISMS's efforts to improve the understanding and practice of marketing. Urbanshares this honor with MIT Sloan colleagues and inaugural (2008) Fellows John Hauser and John Little. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Morphing Theory and Applications." Liverali, Gui, John R. Hauser, and Glen Urban. In Handbook of Marketing Decision Models, New York, NY: Springer US, Forthcoming. "Is Deep Learning a Game Changer for Marketing Analytics?" Urban, Glen, Artem Timoshenko, Paramveer Dhillon, and John R. Hauser. MIT Sloan Management Review, January 2020. Download paper. From Little's Law to Marketing Science: Essays in Honor of John D.C. Little. Hauser, John R. and Glen Urban (Eds.). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2016. "The Case for Benevolent Mobile Apps." Urban, Glen and Fareena Sultan. MIT Sloan Management Review, December 2014. "Website Morphing 2.0: Switching Costs, Partial Exposure, Random Exit, and When to Morph." Hauser, John R., Guilherme Liberali and Glen Urban. Management Science Vol. 60, No. 6 (2014): 1594-1616. "Morphing Banner Advertising." Urban, Glen, Guilherme Liberali, Erin MacDonald, Robert Bordley, and John R. Hauser. Marketing Science Vol. 33, No. 1 (2014): 27-46. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 8 new insights from MIT Sloan Management Review Start the new year with new questions and new ideas from the magazine. Jan 7, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Five new business insights from MIT Sloan Management Review Why you should use consumer-to-consumer marketing campaigns, how the platform economy will affect the future, and more from the magazine. Jul 13, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review An Executive Guide to the Winter 2020 Issue Dec 10, 2019 Faculty: John R. Hauser Stuart Madnick Glen Urban Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Is deep learning a game changer for marketing analytics? Nov 25, 2019 Faculty: John R. Hauser Glen Urban The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
