Neal Hartman | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Neal Hartman Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-342 nhartman@mit.edu (617) 253-8624 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, Managerial Communication 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Neal Hartman is a Senior Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His teaching of management communication and intercultural communication emphasizes working in teams, conflict and conflict resolution, leadership, and cross-cultural communication. Hartman has lectured on cross-cultural, leadership, and organizational communication issues, and has taught in the International MBA Programs at Tsinghua, Fudan, and Zhongshan (Lingnan College) Universities in China. He also serves as co-lead facilitator for CMI-Enterprises, which is part of the Cambridge-MIT Initiative, working with undergraduate students from MIT Sloan, Cambridge University, and other European universities to develop their entrepreneurial skills. Hartman holds a BA in music theory and composition and an MS in higher education administration from the University of South Carolina and an ABD in organizational communication from the University of Texas. Publications "Trump's Rhetoric May Topple Adage that There's No Such Thing as Bad Publicity." Hartman, Neal. The Conversation, January 26, 2016. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter What leaders should learn from the Boeing 737 MAX emails The internal documents are a red flag for a corporate culture, MIT Sloan professor says. Jan 13, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter What made Kate Spade a great entrepreneur She built a brand for the long run. Jun 7, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Psychology Today (Opinion Piece) Job candidates need to brush up on their soft skills Mar 12, 2020 Faculty: Neal Hartman Source: The Boston Globe When colleagues are spread around the globe, work is a different world Aug 18, 2019 Faculty: Neal Hartman The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
