Ray Reagans | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Ray Reagans curriculum vitae Support Staff Patty Charest (617) 253-5701 pcharest@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-382 rreagans@mit.edu (617) 715-4154 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rreagans/ Title Alfred P. Sloan Professor of Management Professor, Work and Organization Studies Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Ray ReagansistheAlfred P. Sloan Professor of Management , a Professor of Organization Studies, and the Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Reagans studies the origin and influence of social capital on knowledge transfer, learning rates, and overall team performance. More specifically, he examines how demographic characteristics such as race, age, and gender affect the development of network relations. He also considers how particular network structures affect performance outcomes, including the transfer of knowledge among individuals and the productivity of research and development teams.Reagans holds a BA in sociology and economics from Brown University and aPhDin sociology from the University of Chicago. Publications Google Scholar "Beyond One-Size-Fits-All: Tailoring Diversity Approaches to the Representation of Social Groups." Apfelbaum, Evan Paul, Nicole M. Stephens, and Ray E. Reagans. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology Vol. 111, No. 4 (2016): 547-566. "Knowledge Utilization, Coordination, and Team Performance." Reagans, Ray, Ella Miron-Spektor, and Linda Argote. Organization Science Vol. 27, No. 5 (2016): 1108-1124. "Forgotten Third Parties: Analyzing the Contingent Association Between Unshared Third Parties, Knowledge Overlap, and Knowledge Transfer Relationships with Outsiders." Reagans, Ray, Param Vir Singh, and Ramayya Krishnan. Organization Science Vol. 26, No. 5 (2015): 1400-1414. "Commitment, learning and alliance performance: A formal analysis using an agent-based network formation model." Anjos, F. and Ray E. Reagans. Journal of Mathematical Sociology Vol. 37, No. 1 (2013): 1-23. "Demographic Diversity as Network Connections: Homophily and the Diversity-Performance Debate." Reagans, Ray, E. In The Oxford Handbook of Diversity and Work, edited by Q. Roberson, 192-208. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2013. "Bridging the Knowledge Gap: The Role of Tie Strength, Network Cohesion, and Network Range." Tortoriello, M., Ray E. Reagans and B. McEvily. Organization Science Vol. 23, No. 4 (2012): 1024-1039. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter In Boston, a lack of access for minority entrepreneurs From venture capital to city contracts, opportunity is limited for minority-owned enterprises in Boston. Oct 26, 2020 Read Article Press Social justice leader Malia Lazu joins MIT Sloan to accelerate ecosystem inclusion in the innovation economy The former executive vice president and regional president at Berkshire Bank joins Associate Deans Fiona Murray and Ray Reagans in creating a series of community conversations. Sep 18, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: INSEAD | Knowledge Can Zoom be a tool for teaching anti-racism? Aug 19, 2020 In recent years, we have been heartened to see DEI [diversity, equity and inclusion] being gradually institutionalized within business academia. Faculty: Erin Kelly Kara Blackburn Fiona E. Murray Ray Reagans The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
