Robert C. Merton | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Robert C. Merton curriculum vitae Support Staff Jonathan Cowin (617) 324-7023 jcowin@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-634 rmerton@mit.edu (617) 715-4866 (617) 258-6855 http://robertcmerton.com Title School of Management Distinguished Professor of Finance Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy Robert C. Merton is the School of Management Distinguished Professor of Finance at MIT Sloan School of Management, and the John and Natty McArthur University Professor Emeritus at Harvard University.He was the George Fisher Baker Professor of Business Administration (198898) and the John and Natty McArthur University Professor (19982010) at Harvard Business School. After receiving a PhD in Economics from MIT in 1970, Merton served on the finance faculty of MITs Sloan School of Management until 1988, at which time he was the J.C. Penney Professor of Management.He is currently resident scientist at Dimensional Holdings, Inc., where he is the creator of Target Retirement Solution, a global integrated retirement-funding solution system.Merton received the Alfred Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1997 for a new method to determine the value of derivatives. He is past president of the American Finance Association, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.Merton is the author of Continuous-Time Finance and a coauthor of Cases in Financial Engineering: Applied Studies of Financial Innovation; The Global Financial System: A Functional Perspective; Finance; and Financial Economics. He has also been recognized for translating finance science into practice.Merton received the inaugural Financial Engineer of the Year Award from the International Association for Quantitative Finance (formerly the International Association of Financial Engineers), which also elected him a Senior Fellow. He received the 2011 CME Group Melamed-Arditti Innovation Award and the 2013 WFE Award for Excellence from World Federation of Exchanges. A Distinguished Fellow of the Institute for Quantitative Research in Finance (Q Group) and a Fellow of the Financial Management Association, Merton received the Nicholas Molodovsky Award from the CFA Institute. He is a member of the Halls of Fame of the Fixed Income Analyst Society, Risk magazine, and Derivatives Strategy magazine. Merton received Risks Lifetime Achievement Award for contributions to the field of risk management and the 2014 Lifetime Achievement Award from the Financial Intermediation Research Society.His research focuses on finance theory, including lifecycle and retirement finance, optimal portfolio selection, capital asset pricing, pricing of derivative securities, credit risk, loan guarantees, financial innovation, the dynamics of institutional change, and improving the methods of measuring and managing macro-financial systemic risk.Merton received a BS in engineering mathematics from Columbia University, a MSin applied mathematics from California Institute of Technology, a PhD in economics from MIT, and honorary degrees from eighteen universities.Current Research Focus: Mertons current research focuses on three areas: 1) Lifecycle investing and retirement funding solutions, 2) Measuring and monitoring macrofinancial (systemic) risk, and 3) Financial innovation and the dynamics of financial institutional change. Honors World Federation of Exchanges to award the 2013 WFE Award for Excellence to Nobel laureates Robert C. Merton and Myron S. Scholes The 2013 WFE Award for Excellence will be awarded to Professor Robert C. Merton, MIT Sloan School of Management, and Professor Myron Scholes, Stanford Graduate School of Business and the late Fischer Black, former director of the Quantitative Strategies Group at Goldman Sachs, in recognition of their development of the groundbreaking Black-Scholes Model in 1973. The WFE Award for Excellence is presented annually in recognition of an outstanding contribution to the advancement of regulated exchange markets. The award acknowledges innovation and advancement leading to greater understanding and better usage of the world's capital markets. Read More Robert C. Merton wins 1997 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences MIT Sloan Professor Robert C. Merton, along with Myron Scholes, won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1997 for a new method to determine the value of derivatives. In collaboration with the late Fischer Black, they developed a pioneering formula for the valuation of stock options. The Black-Scholes-Merton options pricing model is a tenet of modern finance. Merton received his PhD in economics from MIT in 1970. Read More Publications SSRN "A Six-Component Integrated Approach to Addressing the Retirement Funding Challenge." Merton, Robert C., and Arun Muralidhar. Journal of Investment Management Vol. 18, No. 4: 1-27. Forthcoming. Annual Review of Financial Economics, Volume 1-12. Lo, Andrew W. and Robert C. Merton (Eds.). Palo Alto, CA: Annual Reviews, 2020. "Commentary: 5 ways to make the SECURE Act meet participants needs." Merton, Robert C. Pensions and Investments, August 21, 2020. "SeLFIES: A New Pension Bond and Currency for Retirement." Merton, Robert C., and Arun S. Muralidhar. Capco Vol. 51, (2020): 8-19. SSRN Preprint. "SeLFIES: A-New(-ity) Look for Retirement." Merton, Robert C., Arun Muralidhar, and Paula Hogan. In Products, Tools, and Strategies that Address Retirement Risks - Essay Collection, Schaumburg, IL: May 2020. SSRN. "Negative WTI Crude Futures Prices Event Study." Nagy, Adam S., and Robert C. Merton, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6144-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. Load More Recent Insights Press Golub Center names Stanley Fischer winner of first Miriam Pozen Prize $200,000 prize will be awarded to Dr. Fischer and a fellowship named in his honor will be awarded to an MIT Sloan MBA student; Dr. Fischer will deliver the inaugural Miriam Pozen Address at MIT. Sep 10, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 3 policy proposals to bolster the post-lockdown economy Financial experts call for more aid to small businesses, more liquidity for banks, penalty-free access to retirement accounts and a safe return to work. Jun 3, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Institutional Investor Where performance fees don't work Sep 18, 2020 "A fee structure that may be sensible for one type of manager may be less appropriate for another." Faculty: Robert C. Merton Source: Pensions & Investments (Opinion Piece) Commentary: 5 ways to make the SECURE Act meet participants' needs Aug 21, 2020 "I offer five principles...EBSA is on track to complete the first principle and I urge them to consider incorporating the four remaining..." Faculty: Robert C. Merton Source: The Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance (Opinion Piece) SeLFIES: A new pension bond and currency for retirement May 20, 2020 Prof. Robert Merton and co-author recommend an easy, quick and efficient solution for countries to address retirement security. Faculty: Robert C. Merton Source: Nikkei Asian Review Asian and US schools launch first degree course for central bankers Oct 7, 2019 Faculty: Robert C. Merton Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
