Lori Breslow | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Lori Breslow Support Staff Erika Paoletti (617) 253-2650 epaolett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-339 lrb@mit.edu (617) 253-3780 (617) 258-8792 Title Senior Lecturer, Managerial Communication 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Lori Breslow is a Senior Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management.She was the founding director of MIT Teaching and Learning Laboratory (TLL) from 1997 to 2015. TLL serves the Institute as part of the office of the Dean for Undergraduate Education.Breslow's research focuses on the development and impact of pedagogical, curricular, and technological innovations in higher education. As TLLs director, she was responsible for designing, leading or supervising over 80 studies on educational change. Along with educational researchers in TLL and Harvard, as well as collaborators in MITs department of physics, Breslow did some of the earliest research on massive open online courses (MOOCs). Her current studies include examining the use of the MITx platform in blended learning courses, and a multi-institutional, international study of the teaching and learning of communication as a 21st-century skill.Breslow has collaborated both in the U.S. and internationally on a number of initiatives to improve college teaching and learning. Currently, a curriculum design approach she developed is the basis of an initiative in South Africa to improve STEM education in that countrys technical universities. She was the codirector of the Teaching and Learning Network, a collaboration between MIT and the University of Cambridge, and consulted on MITs partnerships to create new universities in Singapore and Abu Dhabi. Breslow has been invited to speak about her work at the New York Times School for Tomorrow symposium, the Presidents Task Force on Science and Technology (PCAST), the New American Foundation, and the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). In 2013, she and her coauthors won the award for Best Paper at the American Society for Engineering Education conference. Her research has been cited in The Wall Street Journal, the Chronicle of Higher Education, and Inside Higher Education.Breslow holds a BA from Indiana University and a PhD from New York University. Honors Lori Breslow honored for article Lori Breslow has been honored as co-author of one of the Top Ten AERA (American Educational Research Association) Journal Articles in 2014. The article, co-authored with Jennifer DeBoer (Purdue), Glenda Stump (ASU), and Andrew Ho (Harvard), is entitled Changing Course: Reconceptualizing Variables for Massive Open Online Courses. Read More Publications Featured Publication "Chapter 3: Big Data, Small Data, and Data Shepherds." DeBoer, Jennifer, and Lori Breslow. In Learning Analytics in Higher Education, edited by Aditya Johri, Carrie Klein, Huzefa Rangwala, and Jaime Lester, Abingdon-on-Thames, UK: Routledge, 2018. Featured Publication "Analyzing productive learning behaviors for students using immediate corrective feedback in a blended learning environment." Chen, Xin, Lori Breslow, and Jennifer DeBoer. Computers & Education Vol. 117, (2018): 59-74. "A Study on Integrating Case-based Learning into an Engineering Curriculum." Eugene Tham Yew Hua and Lori Breslow. edited by David Inglis, Graham Town, Nazmul Huda, and Nicholas Tse, Sydney, Australia: December 2017. "Chapter 1: Strategic Challenges in the Development of Teaching and Learning in Research-Intensive Universities." Stensaker, Bjrn, Grahame T. Bilbow, Lori Breslow, and Rob van der Vaart. In Strengthening Teaching and Learning in Research Universities, edited by Bjrn Stensaker, Grahame T. Bilbow, Lori Breslow, and Rob van der Vaart, 1-18. London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017. "Chapter 8: The Importance of Evidence-based enhancement of the Quality of Learning and Teaching in Research-Intensive Universities." Lindblom-Ylnne, Sari and Lori Breslow. In Strengthening Teaching and Learning in Research Universities, edited by Bjrn Stensaker, Grahame T. Bilbow, Lori Breslow, and Robert van der Vaart, 187-213. London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017. Strengthening Teaching and Learning in Research Universities: Strategies and Initiatives for Institutional Change. Stensaker, Bjrn, Grahame T. Bilbow, Lori Breslow, and Robert van der Vaart (Eds.). London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan faculty insights: 11 books from 2017 Explore our digital future, changing urban mobility, entrepreneurship, and more. Nov 17, 2017 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
