Joseph J. Battat | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Joseph J. Battat Get in Touch Building E62 JJBATTAT@MIT.EDU (617) 253-1000 Title Senior Lecturer, Global Economics and Management About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Joseph Battat is a Senior Lecturer of Global Economics and Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is also currently a Senior Consultant, the World Bank Group. Battat joined the World Bank Group in 1989 where he held a number of positions, including the head of the Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS). FIAS advises governments of developing and emerging economies on ways to improve their investment climate to stimulate domestic and foreign investment conducive to their economic and social development. Other positions Mr. Battat held in FIAS include program manager for the Middle East and North Africa, Central/East Europe and the Former Soviet Union, and China and Mongolia. In the course of this work, he had the opportunity to work or supervise work in over 95 countries.Prior to joining the World Bank Group, Mr. Battat was a marketing systems engineer at IBM Canada, developing application systems in the fields of health care and education [1968-72]. He was also a member of the faculty, School of Business, Indiana University, teaching, conducting research, and consulting with Fortune 500 multinational companies on international business (1982-89).Mr. Battat was the founding co-Dean of the first MBA program in China for the First Ministry of Machine Building (1978-86). He helped establish the International Management Center, Budapest (now the Business School), Central European University in 1987-88. He was the academic co-Dean of the China Executive Education Program of General Electric in the 1980s.Mr. Battat has served on boards of for-profit and not-for-profit organizations. Since the 1990s and for six terms, he was a trustee or chair of the board of trustees of the Institute of Current World Affairs, a, fellowship-granting organization, located in the United States. He is currently a member of the advisory board for International Business, Indiana University. He also served on the board of directors of China Nature Flooring Inc.(China), as a director for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and member of the World Bank Group (2009-11).Battat received an MS in electronics physics from Universit de Grenoble (France) in 1968, a diploma in political philosophy from Beijing University in 1978, and a PhD in international business and economics from MIT in 1984. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
