Ben Shields | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Ben Shields twitter linkedin Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-337 SHIELDSB@MIT.EDU (617) 253-7782 Title Senior Lecturer, Managerial Communication 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Ben Shields is a Senior Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management. He studies the multibillion-dollar sports industry to identify broadly transferable management lessons in areas such as leadership communication, data-driven decision making, and innovation.He is the author or coauthor of three books, Social Media Management: Persuasion in Networked Culture (Oxford University Press, 2016), The Sports Strategist: Developing Leaders for a High Performance Industry (Oxford University Press, 2015), and The Elusive Fan: Reinventing Sports in a Crowded Marketplace (McGraw-Hill, 2006). He teaches a number of courses in the graduate programs at MIT Sloan, including Communication for Leaders, Social Media Management, Sloan Fellows Seminar on Leadership, and a new course on sports management and analytics that will be offered in spring 2020.Shields also teaches in the MIT Sloan Executive Education program. He is the Faculty Director of two programs: the Formula 1 Extreme Innovation Series and the Global Executive Academy. He also serves as the CoFaculty Director of the LEAD20@MIT program with the Ruderman Family Foundation. In addition, he created and teaches the open enrollment program Analytics Management: Business Lessons from the Sports Data Revolution. Shields also teaches in two other open enrollment programs: Communication and Persuasion in the Digital Age and Maximizing Your Personal Productivity.His other sports work at MIT includes co-hosting Counterpoints, the sports analytics podcast from the MIT Sloan Management Review, and teaching in the MIT Sports Entrepreneurship Bootcamp program, which is offered through MITs Office of Open Learning.Prior to MIT, Shields served as the Director of Social Media and Marketing at ESPN. He oversaw social media strategy for the ESPN brand and collaborated across the enterprise to develop and implement company-wide social strategy. He also worked on marketing strategy for several ESPN brands and sub-brands, including the SportsCenter DaDaDa campaign and the Emmy Award-winning Its Not Crazy, Its Sports brand campaign.Shields holds a BS and MA in communication studies and a PhD in media, technology, and society, all from Northwestern University. Honors Shields wins teaching award Ben Shields has won a 2020 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for his work teaching on campus and/or remotely. Shields won the award along with fellow Sloan faculty members Kara Blackburn, Vivek Farias, Michelle Hanlon, Alexandre Jacquillat, Miro Kazakoff, and Rodrigo Verdi. These student-nominated awards recognize faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.This recognition also gives the MIT community the opportunity to learn from their innovative practices. The awards were co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.This year, students submitted a total of 487 nominations for 232 faculty and instructors, and 30 winners were selected by Dean of Digital Learning Krishna Rajagopal and Vice Chancellor Ian Waitz, with help from MIT Open Learning staff. Read More Publications Featured Publication Social Media Management: Persuasion in Networked Culture. Shields, Ben. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2016. Featured Publication The Sports Strategist: Developing Leaders in a High-Performance Industry. Rein, Irving, Ben Shields, and Adam Grossman. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2014. The Elusive Fan: Reinventing Sports in a Crowded Marketplace. Rein, Irving, Philip Kotler, and Ben Shields. New York, NY: McGraw Hill Education, 2014. Recent Insights MIT Sloan Experts Return to Sports: How the industry can survive and adapt in a post-pandemic world Sr. Lecturer Ben Shields discusses the effects of the COVID-19 health crisis for teams, leagues, players and fans in this installment of the MIT Sloan Experts Series. May 26, 2020 Read More Ideas Made to Matter What sports analytics can teach business managers Teams, leagues, and athletes are leading the way when it comes to using data analytics. Heres what businesses can learn from sports analytics. May 4, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Los Angeles Daily News How will spectator sports look after COVID-19? Aug 12, 2020 We are, as an industry, forced to redefine what it means to attend a sporting event. Faculty: Ben Shields Source: KNSD-TV (Video) NBC 7 News at 6 Jun 17, 2020 All we have right now as fans is a digital experience, says [Senior Lecturer Ben] Shields. Faculty: Ben Shields Source: Sports Business Journal | SBJ Unpacks (Podcast) The road ahead: Innovation in sports with Ben Shields Jun 16, 2020 Ben Shields discusses how the sports industry can survive the pandemic and in what ways innovation can reshape the sports industry. Faculty: Ben Shields Source: The Boston Herald MIT is raising money for coronavirus: Heres a Zoom call explaining how ... Apr 29, 2020 The greatest weapon we have is the strength of our community, said Sharmila Chatterjee. Faculty: Sharmila C. Chatterjee Ben Shields Staff: David Capodilupo Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
