Robert M. Freund | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Robert M. Freund curriculum vitae Support Staff Samantha Arnold (617) 715-4822 arnolds@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-567 rfreund@mit.edu (617) 253-8997 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rfreund/ Title Theresa Seley Professor in Management Science Professor, Operations Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Robert Freund is theTheresa Seley Professor in Management Scienceand a Professor of Operations Research at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His main research interests are in convex optimization, computational complexity and related computational science, convex geometry, large-scale nonlinear optimization, and related mathematical systems. His more recent work is in first-order methods and their connections to statistical and machine learning. He has served as coeditor of the journalMathematical Programmingand associate editor of several optimization and operations research journals. He is the former CoDirector of MIT Operations Research Center, the MIT Program in Computation for Design and Optimization, and the former Chair of the INFORMS Optimization Section. He also served a term as Deputy Dean of the Sloan School at MIT (2008-11).Freund received the Longuet-Higgins Prize in computer vision (2007) as well as numerous teaching and education awards at MIT in conjunction with the course and textbook (coauthored with Dimitris Bertsimas)Data, Models, and Decisions: the Fundamentals of Management Science.Freund holds a BA in mathematics from Princeton University and an MS and a PhD in operations research from Stanford University. Honors Freund wins MITs 2020 Seegal prize Robert Freund won the Samuel M. Seegal Faculty Prize, which was established by Paula Seegal-Thompson for her father, a member of the class of 1922. The Seegal Prize is shared with the MIT School of Engineering and is awarded every other year to a professor who inspires students in pursuing and achieving excellence. The Seegal faculty prize is selected by a review committee at MIT. Read More Freund elected as an INFORMS Fellow Rob Freund has been elected as an INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Fellow, Class of 2018. This award honoring lifetime achievement recognizes distinguished individuals who have demonstrated outstanding and exceptional accomplishments and experience in operations research and the management sciences and who have also provided outstanding service to the profession and to INFORMS. Read More Publications Featured Publication "Stochastic Frank-Wolfe for Constrained Finite-Sum Minimization." Geoffrey Negiar, Gideon Dresdner, Alicia Yi-Ting Tsai, Laurent El Ghaoui, Francesco Locatello, Robert M. Freund, and Fabian Pedregosa. In Proceedings of the Thirty-seventh International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML) 2020, edited by Alexandre Bouchard-Ct and Samory Kpotufe. San Diego, CA: July 2020. Featured Publication "Analysis of the Frank-Wolfe Method for Logarithmically-Homogeneous Barriers, with an Extension." Zhao, Renbo, and Robert M. Freund, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6210-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2020. "An 'Oblivious' Ellipsoid Algorithm for Solving a System of (In)Feasible Linear Inequalities." Lamperski, Jourdain, Robert M. Freund, and Michael J. Todd (submitted), MIT Sloan Working Paper 5892-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2019. "Generalized Stochastic Frank-Wolfe Algorithm with Stochastic 'Substitute' Gradient for Structured Convex Optimization." Lu, Haihao, and Robert M. Freund. Submitted, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5535-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2019. "Accelerated Residual Methods for the Iterative Solution of Systems of Equations." Nguyen, Ngoc Cuong, Pablo Fernandez, Robert M. Freund, and Jaime Peraire. SIAM Journal of Scientific Computing Vol. 40, No. 5 (2018): A3157-79. "New Computational Guarantees for Solving Convex Optimization Problems with First Order Methods, via a Function Growth Condition Measure." Freund, Robert M., and Haihao Lu. Mathematical Programming Vol. 170, No. 2 (2018): 445-477. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
