Lawrence Weiss | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Lawrence Weiss curriculum vitae Support Staff Ann Johnston (617) 715-4178 ajohns@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-619 lweiss@mit.edu (617) 225-9301 Title Visiting Professor of Finance About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Lawrence A. Weiss is a Visiting Professor of Corporate Finance at MIT-Sloan. He is also Professor of International Accounting at Tufts University and has previously served on the faculties of McGill, Tulane, MIT, INSEAD, IMD, LBS, and Georgetown. Weiss received his B. Com, Diploma in public accounting and MBA from McGill University and his Doctorate in business administration from Harvard University. He began his career as a Canadian Chartered Accountant (equivalent to a CPA in the U.S.) working for KPMG.Weisss current research has three themes: the reorganization of financially distressed firms; mergers and operations management; and the transition from country-specific accounting standards (Local GAAP) to a single set of global standards (IFRS). His publications include 14 referred articles, four books, and numerous other publications (e.g., working papers, chapters in books, op eds, and cases). His research has been cited over 2,000 times and he has received many honors and awards. Weiss has also worked as a consultant for several major corporations (including Novartis, Philips, and Unilever), and as an expert witness in both civil and criminal cases. He has also testified before the U.S. SenateJudiciary Committee on bankruptcy reform. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
