David Thesmar | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty David Thesmar twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Carlos Pena (617) 253-5858 CPENA@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-632 thesmar@mit.edu (617) 225-9767 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/dthesmar Title Franco Modigliani Professor of Financial Economics Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting David Thesmar is theFranco Modigliani Professor of Financial Economicsanda Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is an expert in corporate finance, financial intermediation, entrepreneurship, and behavioral economics. Recently, he has studied the impact of financing constraints on the real economy. Thesmar also investigates risk management and systemic risk in banking. He has also researched firm organization and non-rational decision making on corporate strategies. His work makes systematic use of large datasets but emphasizes a parsimonious modelling approach to address economic questions.A native of France, Thesmar has been involved in policy advising both at the French and European level. He was a member of the council of economic advisors to the French prime minister from 2007 to 2013, and is currently a scientific adviser to the European Systemic Risk Board. An active participant in the public debate, Thesmar is the author of several books, and a regular columnist for the French daily newspaperLes Echos. He has also held numerous consulting positions in the private sector, with a focus on big data related topics.Thesmar hold a BA in physics and economics from cole Polytechnique, and a PhD from the Paris School of Economics.Current Research Focus:Thesmar'sresearchis in corporate finance. One first area is valuation,with an emphasis on forecasting rules and valuation methods. This line ofresearchemploys survey data as well aslaboratoryexperiments in order to shed light on the efficiency of the capital budgeting process. Another related area is corporate governance: Heshows thatESG investment does not contradict value creation. A third line ofresearchargues that finance benefits the economy by allocating capital to the right projects: He finds that this contribution is very large. Honors Thesmar wins Brattle Group Distinguished Paper Prize David Thesmar has won the 2017 Brattle Group Distinguished Paper Prize. This annual award recognizes outstanding papers on corporate finance published in The Journal of Finance, the official publication of The American Finance Association. Thesmars winning paper, published in February 2017 and co-authored with Martin Schmalz (Michigan Ross) and David Sraer (Berkeley Haas), is entitled, Housing Collateral and Entrepreneurship (The Journal of Finance, 72(1):99-132). The award was presented at the 2018 Annual Meeting of the American Finance Association. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Housing Collateral and Entrepreneurship." Schmalz, Martin C., David Alexandre Sraer and David Thesmar. Journal of Finance Vol. 72, No. 1 (2017): 99-132. Download Paper. Featured Publication "Sticky Expectations and the Profitability Anomaly." Bouchaud, Jean-Philippe, Philipp Krueger, Augustin Landier, and David Thesmar. Journal of Finance Vol. 74, No. 2 (2019): 639-674. Download Paper. "Sizing Up Corporate Restructuring in the COVID Crisis." Robin Greenwood, Ben Iverson, and David Thesmar. In Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Forthcoming. "Banks' Exposure to Interest Rate Risk and the Transmission of Monetary Policy." Gomez, Matthieu, Augustin Landier, David Alexandre Sraer, and David Thesmar. Journal of Monetary Economics. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "CAPM-Based Company (Mis)valuations." Dessaint, Olivier, Jacques Olivier, Clemens A., and David Thesmar. Review of Financial Studies. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "The Real Effects of Bank Capital Requirements." Fraisse, Henri, Mathias L, and David Thesmar. Management Science. Forthcoming. Supplement. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How unemployment benefits spur new business creation Data from France shows that unemployment benefits can encourage entrepreneurs to open up new businesses and boost the economy. Aug 27, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Analysts expect COVID-19 will affect top companies until 2022 A new study shows analysts are expecting negative earnings growth this year. After 2022, they expect the situation to stabilize. May 21, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Brookings Institution Sizing up corporate restructuring in the COVID crisis Sep 24, 2020 Restructuring subsidies and payment deferrals are options that are especially suited for small businesses and should be targeted at them." Faculty: David Thesmar Source: Profit & Loss Bailout for large corps a 'grave mistake,' say MIT professors Mar 24, 2020 Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Jonathan A. Parker Antoinette Schoar David Thesmar Haoxiang Zhu Source: CNBC The numbers suggest the green investing 'mega trend' is here to stay Feb 14, 2020 Faculty: David Thesmar The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
