Jake Cohen | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jake Cohen Get in Touch Building E60-366 jcohen28@mit.edu (617) 324-8107 Title Senior Lecturer, Accounting and Law Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduate and Master's Programs 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Law Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Jake Cohen is Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduate and Masters Programs and a Senior Lecturer in Accounting and Law at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He oversees MIT Sloans portfolio of degree programs, as well as the Offices of Admissions, Student Life, and Career Development. Jake is responsible for setting strategy for the undergraduate and all Master's programs, including the new Master of Business Analytics program. He teaches Financial Accounting to Master of Finance and Executive Education students, as well as Israel Lab, the newest addition to MIT Sloans portfolio of Action Learning programs. Jake is a member of the Deans Leadership Council, and MITs Title IX officer for MIT Sloan.From 2008 to 2011, Jake was the Dean of the MBA Program at INSEAD, directing strategy and operations for campuses in France, Singapore, and Abu Dhabi. Under his leadership, INSEAD expanded its degree programs and received its highest rankings ever among business school MBA programs. Jake also served as a member of the Deans Leadership Team, overseeing every aspect of the academic experience in all programs. In 2012, he spent his post-deanship sabbatical teaching financial management as a Judge Fellow at Cambridge University and as a Research Fellow studying corporate social responsibility reporting at Oxford Universitys Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment.Before becoming dean, Jake was director of the INSEAD-PricewaterhouseCoopers Research Initiative on High Performance Organizations. He was founder, director, and professor of INSEADs Business Foundations Program, as well as Affiliate Professor of Accounting and Control and Business Law. Before joining INSEAD in 2003, he was a Senior Teaching Fellow at Harvard Business School in the Accounting & Management Group.Prior to his academic career, Jake worked as an accountant at KPMG LLP in Philadelphia, and as a mergers & acquisition consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in New York City. As an academic, he has consulted for a number of organizations including: BCG; Bain; Blackstone; ArcelorMittal; Schlumberger; Bel; Accenture, and BMO Capital.Jake holds a JD in corporate law from Syracuse University, an MS in accounting from Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University, and a BS in accounting from Lehigh University. He has completed six executive certificates at Harvard Business School; the AVIRA certificate for senior executives at INSEAD; and is currently participating in Leader to Leader (L2L), MITs nationally recognized best-practice leadership development program. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan launches three new undergraduate majors and minors New offerings will debut in fall 2016 Jan 10, 2016 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
