John R. Hauser | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John R. Hauser curriculum vitae Support Staff Briana Blake (617) 324-4095 brianabl@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-538 hauser@mit.edu (617) 253-2929 (617) 258-7597 https://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jhauser/ Title Kirin Professor of Marketing Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Virtual Customer Initiative John R. Hauser is the Kirin Professor of Marketing at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he teaches new product development, marketing management, and statistical and research methodology.He has served MIT as Head of the MIT Marketing Group, Head of the Management Science Area, Research Director of the Center for Innovation in Product Development, and co-director of the International Center for Research on the Management of Technology.He is the co-author of two textbooks,Design and Marketing of New ProductsandEssentials of New Product Management, and three other books. He is a former editor ofMarketing Science.He has published over one hundred scientific papers.Hauser has been the winner or finalist for over twenty best paper awards, and his students have won a variety of best dissertation awards. He has been recognized with the Converse Award for contributions to the science of marketing; the Parlin Award, the oldest award offered by the American Marketing Association for contributions to marketing research; the Buck Weaver Award for lifetime contributions to the theory and practice of marketing science; and the Churchill Lifetime Achievement Award for contributions to marketing research. He received an award from the MIT Sloan School for outstanding teaching in the Master's program.Hauser has consulted for a variety of corporations on product development, sales forecasting, marketing research,voiceof the customer, defensive strategy, and R&D management and has been an expert witness in over seventy-five cases. He is a founder and principal at Applied Marketing Science, Inc.; a fellow of INFORMS; an inaugural fellow of the INFORMS SocietyofMarketing Science (ISMS); and serves on many editorial boards. He is an affiliate of both the Analysis Group and Cornerstone Research. He has served as an academic trustee of the Marketing Science Institute, a founding officer of ISMS, a Departmental Editor at Management Science, an associate editor at theJournal of Marketing Research.Hauser holds an SB and an SM in electrical engineering, anSMin civil engineering, andan ScDin operations research, all from MIT. He holds an honorary doctorate from the Erasmus School of Economics. Honors Hauser receives honorary doctorate John Hauser has been recognized with an honorary doctorate from the Erasmus School of Economics at Erasmus University. Hauser was recognized in the laudatio as one of the main founders of marketing science as a discipline. Hauser was also cited as one of the most rigorous scholars in the field. The degree was conferred in Rotterdam on November 8, 2016. Read More "Website Morphing" has won an Emerald Management Reviews Citation of Excellence John Hauser's, Glen Urban's, and Michael Braun's article "Website Morphing" (co-authored with Guilherme Liberali of Universidade do Vale do Rio dos Sinos, Brazil) has been selected as one of the 50 best articles published in 2009 in management and has therefore won an Emerald Management Reviews Citation of Excellence. Their article was published in Marketing Science (Vol. 28, No. 2, March-April 2009). Read More John Hauser and John Little were elected as inaugural Fellows of ISMS John Hauser and John D.C. Little were elected as inaugural Fellows of ISMS (the INFORMS Society of Marketing Science) at the 30th Annual Marketing Science Conference in Vancouver, BC. The 10 Fellows Awards were given in recognition of significant, long-term contributions in research, education, and service to the Society of Marketing Science's efforts to improve the understanding and practice of marketing. Read More John Hauser paper reprinted for the January/February 2008 special issue of Marketing Science The papers being reprinted in the Classics Issue is: John Hauser and Steven Shugan, "Defensive Marketing Strategies," originally published in 1983. This Classics Issue celebrates foundation research that is highly cited. Editorials from Editors-in-Chief along with author commentaries are included with the articles in this special issue. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Soul and Machine (Learning)." Proserpio, Davide, John R. Hauser, Tomomichi Amano, Alex Burnap, Tong Guo, Dokiun Lee, Xiao Liu, Randall Lewis, Kanishka Misra, Eric Schwarz, Artem Timoshenko, Lilei Xu, and Hema Yoganarasimhan. Marketing Letters. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Is Deep Learning a Game Changer for Marketing Analytics?" Urban, Glen, Artem Timoshenko, Paramveer Dhillon, and John R. Hauser. MIT Sloan Management Review Vol. 61, No. 2 (2020): 71-76. Download Paper. "The Strategic Implications of Scale in Choice-Based Conjoint Analysis." Hauser, John R., Felix Eggers, and Matthew Selove. Marketing Science Vol. 38, No. 6 (2019): 1059-1081. Appendices. "Leveraging the Power of Images in Predicting Product Return Rates." Dzyabura, Daria, Siham El Kihal, John R. Hauser, and Marat Ibragimov, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5856-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, September 2019. "Design and Evaluation of Product Aesthetics: A Human-Machine Hybrid Approach." Burnap, Alex, John R. Hauser, and Artem Timoshenko, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5814-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, January 2020. "Recommending Products When Consumers Learn their Preference Weights." Dzyabura, Daria and John R. Hauser. Marketing Science Vol. 38, No. 3 (2019): 417-441. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 8 new insights from MIT Sloan Management Review Start the new year with new questions and new ideas from the magazine. Jan 7, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Seven 2016 books from MIT Sloan faculty members Platforms, free innovation, millennial communication, and more platforms. Nov 22, 2016 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review An Executive Guide to the Winter 2020 Issue Dec 10, 2019 Faculty: John R. Hauser Stuart Madnick Glen Urban Source: Kellogg Insight How companies can mine online reviews for product-development gold Dec 2, 2019 Faculty: John R. Hauser Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Is deep learning a game changer for marketing analytics? Nov 25, 2019 Faculty: John R. Hauser Glen Urban The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
