Kristine Dery | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Kristine Dery twitter linkedin Get in Touch Building E94 kdery@mit.edu (617) 953-5117 Title Research Scientist 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Information Systems Research Kristines research in the dynamic between technology and the way that people work has been a focus of her publications and teaching for the last fifteen years. Currently she is investigating the design and management of the workplace to understand how organisations use digital capabilities internally to create more effective ways of working, and the impact of new ways of engaging with talent in the digital era. This work has stemmed from a historical research focus on the relationship between HRM and IT, Mobile Connectivity, Human Resource Information Systems, Gamification, and Remote Working. Kristine previously held management roles in the tourism and airline industries in Australia, New Zealand, and the UK. She is based in Sydney, Australiaand is responsible for fostering MIT CISR research relationships with companies in Australia and New Zealand. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Designing employee experience in the remote work era Frequent check-ins, a redesign mindset, empathetic leadership, and empowered teams are a few keys to employee success during the COVID-19 pandemic. Sep 3, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 4 strategies for future-proofing your workforce How DBS Bank, Schneider Electric, and other top companies are helping employees build a digital mindset. Sep 5, 2019 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
