John E. Core | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John E. Core curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-670 jcore@mit.edu (617) 715-4819 (617) 253-0603 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jcore Title Nanyang Technological University Professor of Accounting Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting John E. Core is theNanyang Technological University Professorand a Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Core has broad research interests in executive compensation and executive stock and option incentives, corporate governance, nonprofit governance, and disclosure and the cost of capital. His research has been published in theAccounting Review, theJournal of Accounting & Economics, theJournal of Accounting Research, theJournal of Finance, and theJournal of Financial Economics. When not conducting research, Core teaches the core Financial Accounting class to first-year MBA students at MIT Sloan. Prior to entering academia, he worked in investment banking for PaineWebber and in compensation consulting for Ernst & Young.Core holds a BA from Yale University and a PhD from The Wharton School. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Corporate Governance, CEO Compensation, and Firm Performance." Core, John E., Robert W. Holthausen and David F. Larcker. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 51, No. 3 (1999): 371-406. Featured Publication "The Use of Equity Grants to Manage Optimal Equity Incentive Levels." Core, John E. and Wayne Guay. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 28, No. 2 (1999): 151-184. "Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure." Abramova, Inna, John E. Core, and Andrew Sutherland. The Accounting Review. Forthcoming. SSRN. "Managerial Incentives to Increase Firm Volatility Provided by Debt, Stock, and Options." Anderson, Joshua D., and John Core. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Discussion of 'Optimal Conservatism with Earnings Manipulation'." Core, John. Contemporary Accounting Research Vol. 34, No. 1 (2017): 285-291. "Mandatory Disclosure Quality, Inside Ownership, and Cost of Capital." Core, John E., Luzi Hail and Rodrigo Verdi. European Accounting Review Vol. 24, No. 1 (2015): 1-29. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
