Virginia Healy-Tangney | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Virginia Healy-Tangney linkedin Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-315 vtangney@mit.edu (617) 324-4021 (617) 253-2660 Title Senior Lecturer, Managerial Communication About Academic Groups Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Virginia Healy-Tangney is a Senior Lecturer in Managerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Healy-Tangneys teaching of managerial communication has been shaped by more than thirty years in the corporate sector working as an executive coach to improve Fortune 500 organizations by transforming leaders into exceptional communicators.At MIT Sloan, she teaches the MBA core course Communication for Leaders, and with the MIT Leadership Center, coaches and mentors students to help them expand their horizons and hone key communication skills. In addition, Healy-Tangney teaches effective communication sessions in the MIT Sloan Executive Education custom programs designed for leading organizations around the world. Prior to joining MIT Sloan in 2007, Healy-Tangney was director of executive communications at State Street Corporation, the worlds leading provider of financial services to institutional investors. As director she provided strategy and leadership development in communication for State Streets C-Suite executives.Healy-Tangney holds an AB in English literature from Boston State College, an MA in English and Rhetoric from the University of Massachusetts, and MS in Communication Management from Simmons College. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
