Juanjuan Zhang | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Juanjuan Zhang linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Briana Blake (617) 324-4095 brianabl@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-534 jjzhang@mit.edu (617) 452-2790 (617) 258-7597 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jjzhang/ Title John D. C. Little Professor of Marketing Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Juanjuan Zhang is the John D. C. Little Professor of Marketing at the MIT Sloan School of Management.An expert in quantitative modeling, Zhang combines economic theory with data science to optimize various business decisions in this fast-changing world. Her research covers industries such as consumer goods, social media, and healthcare, and functional areas such as product management, pricing, and sales.Zhangs research has won multiple best-paper awards, including the Frank Bass Award for the best marketing thesis, and the INFORMS Society for Marketing Science Long Term Impact Award. In 2018, she was named an inaugural Marketing Science Institute Scholar, a title awarded to the most prominent marketing scholars in the world.Zhang served as marketing department editor of her fields top journal, Management Science. She also served as VP of the INFORMS Society for Marketing Science.Zhang currently teaches Marketing Innovation at MIT Sloan. She is a recipient of the MIT dArbeloff Fund for Excellence in Education and MIT Sloans highest teaching award, the Jamieson Prize. She was also named a Top 50 Undergraduate Professor by Poets and Quants.Zhang holds a B Econ from Tsinghua University and a PhD in business administration from the University of California, Berkeley. Honors INFORMS award given to Zhang Juanjuan Zhang has won the 2019 INFORMS (The Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Society for Marketing Science Long Term Impact Award.This honor is given annually to a Marketing Science, Management Science, or another INFORMS journal publication that is viewed to have made a significant long-run impact on the field of marketing. Zhangs recognized paper is entitled, The Sound of Silence: Observational Learning in the U.S. Kidney Market (Marketing Science (2010) 29(2):315-335). Read More Zhang wins Jamieson Prize Juanjuan Zhang and Georgia Perakis have each received the 2014 Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Tweeting as a Marketing Tool: A Field Experiment in the TV Industry." Gong, Shiyang, Juanjuan Zhang, Ping Zhao, and Xuping Jiang. Journal of Marketing Research Vol. 54, No. 6 (2017): 833-850. Featured Publication "Deadlines in Product Development." Zhang, Juanjuan. Management Science Vol. 62, No. 11 (2016): 3310-3326. "Preference Learning and Demand Forecast." Cao, Xinyu and Juanjuan Zhang. Marketing Science. Forthcoming. "Economic Foundations of Marketing Strategy." Villas-Boas, J. Miguel and Juanjuan Zhang. In The Routledge Companion to Strategic Marketing, New York, NY: Routledge, 2019. "Learning from Experience, Simply." Lin, Song, Juanjuan Zhang, and John R. Hauser. Marketing Science Vol. 34, No. 1 (2015): 1-19. Media. Appendix. Download Paper. "Why Do Sales People Spend So Much Time Lobbying for Low Prices?" Simester, Duncan, and Juanjuan Zhang. Marketing Science Vol. 33, No. 6 (2014): 796-808. Finalist, 2014John D. C. Little Award. Media. Load More Media Highlights Source: BusinessBecause MIT to Tsinghua: How my MBA showed me the best of US-China business Jul 19, 2019 Faculty: Juanjuan Zhang Source: Poets & Quants 2018 Top 50 Undergraduate Professors: Juanjuan Zhang, MIT (Sloan) Nov 13, 2018 Faculty: Juanjuan Zhang The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
