Donna Levin | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Donna Levin Get in Touch Building E62-479 djlevin@mit.edu (617) 324-9710 Title Program Manager / Lecturer, Entrepreneurship Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences DONNA LEVIN is an Entrepreneur-in-Residence at the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship and a Senior Lecturer in Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Strategy at the MIT Sloan School of Management.In Donnas role as a Senior Lecturer, she oversees the Entrepreneurship and Innovation track at Sloan, and teaches courses designed to introduce students to technological entrepreneurship and to help build scalable ventures. As an Entrepreneur in Residence at the Trust Center, Donna mentors MIT students across all the schools on campus. She is an active part of the MIT entrepreneurship ecosystem and has served as part of the teaching and coaching team for the Trust Center's two accelerator programs, MIT fuse during IAP and MIT delta v, MITs capstone accelerator program.Donna had an 18-year career as a social entrepreneur. She is cofounder of Care.com, the worlds leading online destination for helping families find and manage family care with over 23 million members across 18 countries. During Donnas tenure at Care.com, she played key roles in building and leading high performing teams, and scaling the company through five rounds of funding to IPO.Previously vp of operations at Upromise, an online service that helps families save for college, she has also held several leadership positions across a broad range of technology and start up organizations including Furniture.com, Turning Point Software (acquired by Metamore Worldwide), and Thomson Financial.Donna is an advisor to several early stage startups and has mentored teams at MassChallenge, Techstars, Smarter in the City, and Project Entrepreneur. Donna serves on the board of directors of WBUR, Bostons NPR news station, and Zero to Three, whose mission is to ensure that all babies and toddlers have a strong start in life. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How to scale a startup Ten startup growth lessons from care.com co-founder (and MIT lecturer) Donna Levin. Oct 3, 2016 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
