Eric So | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Eric So curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-677 eso@mit.edu (617) 253-6470 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/eso/ Title Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management Associate Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Eric So is the Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management and an Associate Professor in the Economics, Finance, and Accounting Area of the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research interests include equity valuation, asset pricing, option markets, security analysts, and limits to arbitrage with a focus on the forces and mechanisms that shape the information content of market prices.He holds an MA in economics from Cornell University and a PhD in business administration from Stanford University's Graduate School of Business. Prior to completing his PhD, So worked as a research analyst at the Nasdaq Stock Market in the Economic Research department. Honors So wins 2020 Jamieson Prize Eric So and Vivek Farias (Operations Management) were each awarded the 2020 Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence. The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award is the most prestigious teaching prize offered by the school. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. The Jamieson faculty prize is selected by a review committee at MIT. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Uncovering Expected Returns: Information in Analyst Coverage Proxies." Lee, Charles M.C., and Eric So. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 124, No. 2 (2017): 331-348. Featured Publication "Asymmetric Trading Costs Prior to Earnings Announcements: Implications for Price Discovery and Returns." Johnson, Travis, and Eric So. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 56, No. 1 (2018): 217-263. "A Simple Multimarket Measure of Information Asymmetry." Johnson, Travis L., and Eric So. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Time Will Tell: Information in the Timing of Scheduled Earnings News." Johnson, Travis L., and Eric So. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis. Forthcoming. "Calendar Rotations: A New Approach for Studying the Impact of Timing using Earnings Announcements." Noh, Suzy, Eric So, and Rodrigo Verdi, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5666-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2019. "Voluntary and Mandatory Disclosures: Do Managers View them as Substitutes?" Noh, Suzie, Eric So, and Joseph P. Weber. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 68, No. 1 (2019): 101243. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter When companies report earnings, going first helps Research shows firms that report early in the earnings queue earn more media coverage, heightened attention from investors, and a bump in trading volume. Apr 7, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: SSRN Electronic Library SSRN top 5 papers October 14 to 20, 2019 Oct 21, 2019 Faculty: Eric So Source: The Wall Street Journal | CFO Journal Companies' non-GAAP adjustments to net income have soared Oct 18, 2019 Faculty: Eric So The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
