Deborah J. Lucas | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Deborah J. Lucas curriculum vitae Support Staff Carlos Pena (617) 253-5858 CPENA@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-640 dlucas@mit.edu (617) 715-4816 http://dlucas.scripts.mit.edu/ Title Sloan Distinguished Professor of Finance Director of the MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy Deborah Lucas is the Sloan Distinguished Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management and Director of the MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy.Her current research focuses on developing and applying financial economics to evaluate the costs and risks of governments financial activities. She is also widely published in the fields of asset pricing and corporate finance.Lucas is a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, a Term Professor at the PBC School of Finance at Tsinghua University and a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee. She serves on advisory boards for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Urban Institute, on the editorial board of the Annual Review of Financial Economics, and as an associate editor and for the American Economic Journal Policy. She is a board member of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and consultant for the OECD and the Congressional Budget Office. She is an elected member of the National Academy of Public Administration and the National Academy of Social Insurance.Previous appointments include chief economist, and subsequently assistant and associate director at the U.S. Congressional Budget Office, member of the Social Security Technical Advisory Panel, senior staff economist for U.S. Council of Economic Advisers, Professor at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and coeditor of the JMCB. An expert on federal credit programs, she has testified before the U.S. Congress on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, student loans, and strategically important financial institutions.Lucas received her BA, MA, and a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago. Publications Google Scholar SSRN "A Fair Value Approach to Valuing Public Infrastructure Projects and the Risk Transfer in Public Private Partnerships." Lucas, Deborah J., and Jorge Jimenez Montesinos. In Economics of Infrastructure Investment, 1-33. Cambridge, MA: University of Chicago Press, Forthcoming. "Towards Fair Value Accounting for Public Pensions: The Case for Delinking Disclosure and Funding Requirements." Lucas, Deborah J. In Gathering Storm: The Risks of State Pension Underfunding, Cambridge, UK: Forthcoming. "Funding Pandemic Relief: Monetise Now." Grkaynak, Refet, and Deborah Lucas. Vox, May 14, 2020. "Inventory of Support for Fossil FuelsEstimating the Support Component of Loan Guarantees and Preferential Loans." Lucas, Deborah J., MIT Sloan Working Paper 5400-17. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, December 2019. "Measuring the Cost of Bailouts." Lucas, Deborah J. Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 11, (2019): 85-108. Download Paper. "The Student Loan Consolidation Option." Lucas, Deborah J. and Damien Moore. Journal of Public Economics Vol. 174, (2019): 1-12. Load More Recent Insights Press Golub Center names Stanley Fischer winner of first Miriam Pozen Prize $200,000 prize will be awarded to Dr. Fischer and a fellowship named in his honor will be awarded to an MIT Sloan MBA student; Dr. Fischer will deliver the inaugural Miriam Pozen Address at MIT. Sep 10, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 3 policy proposals to bolster the post-lockdown economy Financial experts call for more aid to small businesses, more liquidity for banks, penalty-free access to retirement accounts and a safe return to work. Jun 3, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: FiveThirtyEight Economists think congress should keep paying unemployed workers $600 a w... Jul 21, 2020 Deborah Lucas said she would opt for temporarily leaving the weekly payment at $600, or even increasing it a bit... Faculty: Deborah J. Lucas Source: Marketplace (Audio) What can the Federal Reserve do to help the economy? May 20, 2020 The central bank could try to help Americans more directly, said Prof. Lucas: They could print money, and ... distribute it to households." Faculty: Deborah J. Lucas Source: WCVB-TV (Video) Critics say giant bailout program for small businesses misses mark May 1, 2020 Deborah Lucas says: "If the goal is to protect paychecks, the way we do that is through our unemployment system, Faculty: Deborah J. Lucas Source: Bloomberg Radio | Bloomberg Surveillance (Audio) Interview with Deborah J. Lucas Apr 1, 2020 Faculty: Deborah J. Lucas Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
