Robert S. Pindyck | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Robert S. Pindyck curriculum vitae Support Staff Dagmar Trantinova (617) 253-9748 dagmar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-522 rpindyck@mit.edu (617) 253-6641 (617) 258-6786 http://web.mit.edu/rpindyck/www/ Title Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd Professor in Finance and Economics Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research Robert Pindyck is the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. Professor in Finance and Economics and aProfessor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Pindycks most recent research focuses on economic policies related to rare disasters, such as those that would severely affect the entire U.S. or world economies. Examples include possible but low-probability catastrophic outcomes from global warming or nuclear terrorism. At issue is how such low-probability but extreme outcomes should affect current policy, for example, in reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. He also has continued to work on irreversible investment decisions, the role of network effects in market structure, and the behavior of commodity prices.Pindyck is the co-author of Investment Under Uncertainty (Princeton University Press, 1994), which demonstrates that the traditional net present value rule for capital investment decisions can lead to wrong answers since it ignores the irreversibility of most investment decisions and the option of delaying an investment. Recently, Pindyck has extended these ideas to the timing and design of environmental policy, as well as to research and development decisions and patent valuation. His work on network effects focuses on market structure in the pharmaceutical and computer industries, while his research on commodity markets examines the random structure of long-term and short-term price evolution and the implications for hedging and investment.Pindyck holds an SB in electrical engineering and physics, an SM in electrical engineering, and a PhD from MIT. Honors Pindyck wins Jamieson Award Bob Pindyck, along with Deborah Ancona, was awarded the 2018Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Averting Catastrophes: The Strange Economics of Scylla and Charybdis." Martin, Ian W.R., and Robert S. Pindyck. American Economic Review Vol. 105, No. 10 (2015): 2947-2985. Appendix. Featured Publication "The Use and Misuse of Models for Climate Policy." Pindyck, Robert. Review of Environmental Economics and Policy Vol. 11, No. 1 (2017): 100-114. "What We Know and Don't Know About Climate Change, and Implications for Policy." Pindyck, Robert S., MIT Sloan Working Paper 6114-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "COVID-19 and the Welfare Effects of Reducing Contagion." Pindyck Robert S., MIT Sloan Working Paper 6103-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "Scarcity, Market Power, and Prices at Slot-Constrained Airports: Evidence from Mexico City." Arcelus, Almudena, Ryan Booth, Aaron M. Fix, Jee-Yeon K. Lehmann, Federico G. Mantovanelli, and Robert S. Pindyck. Journal of Transport Economics and Policy Vol. 53, No. 2 (2019): 119-134. "The Social Cost of Carbon, Revisited." Pindyck, Robert S. Journal of Environmental Economics and Management Vol. 94, (2019): 140-160. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Climate change and financial risk Follow these five steps to put extreme weather impacts into financial perspective. May 23, 2019 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
