Sharmila C. Chatterjee | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Sharmila C. Chatterjee linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Katie Means (617) 324-4253 kmeans@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-543 schatterjee@mit.edu (617) 253-8214 (617) 258-7597 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/schatterjee/ Title Academic Head, Enterprise Management Track Senior Lecturer, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Sharmila C. Chatterjee is a Senior Lecturer in Marketing and is the Academic Head for the MBA Track in Enterprise Management (EM) launched at MIT Sloan in Fall 2012. Chatterjee teaches the graduate course in B2B Marketing and is deeply engaged in Action Learning as a faculty mentor for G-Lab, China/India Lab, and as an instructor for the Enterprise Management (EM) Lab.A business-to-business marketing expert, Chatterjee examines issues in the domains of channels of distribution, sales force management, and relationship marketing using survey research coupled with econometric methods for analysis. In the area of sales force management, she carried out some of the first studies in the critical area of sales-marketing interface, specifically, sales lead management. She is interested in effective management of the sales/marketing interface with a view towards appropriate allocation of resources between customer acquisition and retention activities. Lately, Chatterjee has become interested in the diffusion of technological innovations among users at client organizations under the rubric of value based management. In B2C, Chatterjee has done research in the areas of brand trust, financial literacy and multicultural marketing.Chatterjee has published inBehaviormetrika, Industrial Marketing Management, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, Journal of Brand Strategy, Journal of Cultural Marketing Strategy, Journal of Marketing, Journal of Retailing, Marketing Letters, MarketingManagement Journal,andMarketing Report. She is an award winning case writer with several of her cases placing first in the case writing competitions sponsored by the educational wing of Direct Marketing Association, DMEF.Chatterjee graduated from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani and worked briefly in Faridabad, India before earning her PhD in marketing from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Publications Featured Publication "B2B Relationship Calculus: Quantifying Resource Effects in Service-Dominant Logic." deLeon, Anthony J., and Sharmila C. Chatterjee. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science Vol. 45, No. 3 (2017): 402-427. Featured Publication "The Sales Lead Black Hole: On Sales Reps' Follow-Up of Marketing Leads." Sabnis, Gaurav, Sharmila C. Chatterjee, Rajdeep Grewal and Gary L. Lilien. Journal of Marketing Vol. 77, No. 1 (2013): 52-67. "3 Reasons why the Workplace cant Return to Normal after COVID-19." Latinovic, Zoran and Sharmila C. Chatterjee. Fast Company, June 2020. "AIs Communication Upsides." Latinovic, Zoran and Sharmila C. Chatterjee. MIT Sloan Management Review, April 2020. "Human Needs: Shopping Outlook 2020." Chatterjee, Sharmila C. Hear Me, Canvas8: Expert Outlook 2020, January 21, 2020. "In the Age of Online Shopping, Dont Count out Brick-and-Mortar Stores." Chatterjee, Sharmila C. USA Today, November 29, 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 3 ways retail stores can survive against the odds Now more than ever, retail success means focusing on relationships and loyalty programs, not transactions and discounts. Oct 21, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 8 insights from MIT Sloan Management Review Todays leaders have to navigate a complicated digital landscape. These ideas from MIT researchers will help. Oct 2, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Fast Company (Opinion Piece) 3 reasons why the workplace can't return to normal after COVID-19 Jun 18, 2020 "Many employees assume that when the crisis is over, these 'wartime working conditions' will end and things will go back to the way they were. " Faculty: Sharmila C. Chatterjee Source: The Boston Herald MIT is raising money for coronavirus: Heres a Zoom call explaining how ... Apr 29, 2020 The greatest weapon we have is the strength of our community, said Sharmila Chatterjee. Faculty: Sharmila C. Chatterjee Ben Shields Staff: David Capodilupo Source: Gizmodo What would shopping look like if Amazon suddenly shut down its warehouse... Apr 23, 2020 Prof. Chatterjee says Amazons brick-and-mortar competitors would need months of lead time to build the kind of distribution muscle Amazon has. Faculty: Sharmila C. Chatterjee Source: WalletHub Ask the experts: Bright minds on the best rewards Apr 15, 2020 The vast majority of Americans have at least one credit card, and we are slowly moving towards a cashless society. Faculty: Sharmila C. Chatterjee Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
