Otto Scharmer | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Otto Scharmer Support Staff Ryan Harrington (617) 715-5675 ryanharr@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-419 scharmer@mit.edu (617) 253-0486 http://www.ottoscharmer.com/ Title Senior Lecturer, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Otto Scharmer is a Senior Lecturer in the MIT Management Sloan School and co-founder of the Presencing Institute. He chairs the MIT IDEAS program for cross-sector innovation and introduced the concept of presencinglearning from the emerging futurein his bestselling books Theory U and Presence (the latter co-authored with P. Senge et al). He is coauthor ofLeading from the Emerging Future,which outlines eight acupuncture points for transforming capitalism. His most recent book, The Essentials of Theory U, summarizes the core principles and applications of awareness-based systems change.In 2015, Otto co-founded theMITx u.lab, a massive open online course (MOOC) for leading profound change, which has since activated a global eco-system of transformational change involving more than 160,000 users from 185 countries.In March 2020, Otto and his colleagues at the Presencing Institute launched GAIA (Global Activation of Intention and Action), a free, online, deep learning journey, geared toward profound personal, societal, and planetary renewal.Otto earned his diploma and PhD in economics from Witten/Herdecke University in Germany. He received the Jamieson Prize for Teaching Excellence at MIT, the European Leonardo Corporate Learning Award and is a member of the World Future Council. The United Nations Deputy Secretary-General appointed him to theUN Learning Advisory Council for the 2030 Agenda.For more information: www.ottoscharmer.comand www.presencing.org Honors Scharmer receives Leonardo Award Otto Scharmer has received the Leonardo Award 2016 in Thought Leadership, a Leonardo European Corporate Learning Award addressing the future of learning. The award recognizes the value and contribution of Scharmers management methodTheory U. Read More Scharmer wins Jamieson Prize Otto Scharmer and Dimitris Bertsimas were each awarded the 2015Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications "Ridding Ourselves of Trumpism Will Mean Leaning Into Disruption (Podcast)." Interviewed by Andrew Keen. Keen On, November 2020. "Turning the Tide." Scharmer, Otto. Field of the Future Blog. Medium, December 2018. "Axial Shift: The Decline of Trump, the Rise of the Greens, and the New Coordinates of Societal Change." Scharmer, Otto. Medium, November 2018. "Ego to Eco Building a New Economy for Western Australia (podcast)." Interviewed by Karun Cowpe. Globalactive Podcast, August 2018. "It Takes a Journey." Scharmer, Otto. August 2018. "3 Criticisms of Leadership with MIT Professor Otto Scharmer (podcast)." Interviewed by Jake Carlson. Modern Leadership, July 2018. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Fourteen MIT Sloan faculty members to follow on Twitter New Twitter list collects insight and ideas from more than 40 professors, lecturers, and research scientists Feb 19, 2015 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Literary Hub | Keen On Podcast Ridding ourselves of Trumpism will mean leaning into disruption Nov 9, 2020 "...whenever disruption happens, there are two different ways I can respond. One is turning away, and the other is turning toward." Faculty: Otto Scharmer Source: Medium | Presencing Institute (Opinion Piece) A new superpower in the making: Awareness-based collective action Apr 9, 2020 Faculty: Otto Scharmer Source: Medium (Opinion Piece) Vertical literacy: Reimagining the 21st-century university Apr 16, 2019 Faculty: Otto Scharmer Source: Medium (Opinion Piece) Turning the tide Dec 19, 2018 Faculty: Otto Scharmer The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
