Paul Asquith | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Paul Asquith curriculum vitae Support Staff Ann Johnston (617) 715-4178 ajohns@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-660 pasquith@mit.edu (617) 253-7177 (617) 253-0603 Title Gordon Y Billard Professor of Finance Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering Paul Asquith is the Gordon Y Billard Professor of Financeand a Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Asquith is a specialist in corporate finance and a media source for the field of corporate finance and control, including mergers, dividend policy, financial distress, and market efficiency. An empiricist, he investigates applied problems using real-world data. His most recent research examines analysts forecasts and market efficiency. MIT Sloan program students have recognized Asquith with 13 Teaching Excellence Awards.Asquith holds a BA in economics from Michigan State University as well as an AM and a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago.Current Research Focus: Professor Asquith's recent working paper focuses on the effects of regulation. "The Effects of Mandatory Transparency in Financial Market Design," looks at the impact on market volume and market volatility from FINRA's requirement that all corporate bond trades be transparent. In addition, he is currently examining the effects of bond issuances and using them to test some of the theories of equity IPOs. Older research examines reverse mergers as an alternative to IPOs in a working paper, "A Test of IPO Theories Using Reverse Mergers." Publications Google Scholar SSRN Lessons in Corporate Finance: A Case Studies Approach to Financial Tools, Financial Policies, and Valuation, 2nd Edition. Asquith, Paul, and Lawrence A. Weiss. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2019. Lessons in Finance: Basic Tools. Weiss, Lawrence A. and Paul Asquith. Cambridge, MA: CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2014. "The Market for Borrowing Corporate Bonds." Asquith, Paul, Andrea Au, Thomas Covert and Parag Pathak. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 107, No. 1 (2013): 155-182. "Short Sales and Trade Classification Algorithms." Asquith, Paul, Rebecca Oman and Christopher Safaya. Journal of Financial Markets Vol. 13, No. 1 (2010): 157-173. "Performance Pricing in Debt Contracts." Asquith, Paul, Anne Beatty and Joseph P. Weber. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 40, No. 1 (2005): 101-128. "Short Interest, Institutional Ownership, and Stock Returns." Asquith, Paul. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 78, No. 2 (2005): 243-276. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan engages Matt Zames, former Chief Operating Officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and MIT alum, as an Executive in Residence at the school Matt has been at the forefront of the financial services industry throughout his career Oct 24, 2017 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
