Catherine Tucker | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Catherine Tucker curriculum vitae Support Staff Aileen Menounos (617) 253-4936 aileenrm@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-536 cetucker@mit.edu (617) 252-1499 (617) 258-7597 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/cetucker/ Title Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management Professor, Marketing Chair MIT Sloan PhD Program 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Catherine Tucker is theSloan Distinguished Professor of Managementand a Professor of Marketing at MIT Sloan. She is also Chair of the MIT Sloan PhD Program.Her research interests lie in how technology allows firms to use digital data and machine learning to improve performance, and in the challenges this poses for regulation. Tucker has particular expertise in online advertising, digital health, social media, and electronic privacy. Her research studies the interface between marketing, the economics of technology, and law.She has received an NSF CAREER Award for her work on digital privacy, the Erin Anderson Award for an Emerging Female Marketing Scholar and Mentor, the Garfield Economic Impact Award for her work on electronic medical records, the Paul E. Green Award for contributions to the practice of Marketing Research, the William F. O'Dell Award for most significant, long-term contribution to Marketing, and the INFORMS Society for Marketing Science Long Term Impact Award for long-run impact on marketing.She is a cofounder of the MIT Cryptoeconomics Lab which studies the applications of blockchain and also a co-organizer of the Economics of Artificial Intelligence initiative sponsored by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. She has been a Visiting Fellow at All Souls College, Oxford. She has testified to Congress regarding her work on digital privacy and algorithms, and presented her research to the OECD and the ECJ.Tucker is coeditor at Quantitative Marketing and Economics, associate editor at Management Science, Marketing Science, and the Journal of Marketing Research and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. She teaches MIT Sloan's course on Pricing and the EMBA course "Marketing Management for the Senior Executive." She has received the Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching as well as being voted "Teacher of the Year" at MIT Sloan.She holds a PhD in economics from Stanford University and a BA from the University of Oxford. Honors Tucker and Simester win AMA award Catherine Tucker and Duncan Simester have won the 2020 Weitz-Winer-ODell Award from the American Marketing Association.This award recognizes a Journal of Marketing Research article published five years earlier that has made the most significant, long-term contribution to marketing theory, methodology, and/or practice. Their winning paper, Harbingers of Failure (Journal of Marketing Research, Vol. 52, No. 5, October 2015), was co-authored with Song Lin (HKUST Business School), who was an MIT Sloan PhD student when the paper was written (PhD 2015), and Eric Anderson (Kellogg School of Management), who also obtained his PhD at MIT Sloan (in 1995). Read More Tucker wins ODell Award Catherine Tucker has won the 2018 William F. ODell Award from the American Marketing Association. This annual award honors the Journal of Marketing Research article published five years ago (in 2013) that has made the most significant, long-term contribution to marketing theory, methodology, and/or practice. Tuckers winning paper, co-authored with Anja Lambrecht (London Business School), is entitled When Does Retargeting Work? Information Specificity in Online Advertising (Journal of Marketing Research, October 2013, 50:5, 561-576). Read More Tucker receives long term impact award Catherine Tucker has won the 2018 INFORMS Society for Marketing Science Long Term Impact Award. This annual award recognizes a paper published in Marketing Science, Management Science, or another INFORMS journal that is regarded as having made a significant long-term impact on the field of marketing. Tuckers winning paper, co-authored with Avi Goldfarb (University of Toronto), is entitled Online Display Advertising: Targeting and Obtrusiveness. Read More Catherine Tucker recognized by American Marketing Association Foundation Catherine Tucker has won the Erin Anderson Award given by the American Marketing Association Foundation (AMAF). The annual award recognizes an emerging female marketing scholar and mentor. Professor Tucker sets a leading example for women early in their career, demonstrating how they can balance their academic lives with their personal ones and find success in both areas, stated the award committee chair. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Antitrust and Costless Verification: An Optimistic and a Pessimistic View of the Implications of Blockchain Technology." Catalini, Christian, and Catherine Tucker. Antitrust Law Journal. Forthcoming. "Inequality, Privacy, and Digital Market Design." Tucker, Catherine. In Fair by Design, edited by Alex Teyteboym and Scott Kominers, Forthcoming. "Which Retail Outlets Generate the Most Physical Interactions?" Tucker, Catherine, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6092-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "Social Distancing and School Closures: Documenting Disparity in Internet Access among School Children." Sen, Ananya and Catherine Tucker, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6093-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "The Early Effects of Coronavirus-Related Social Distancing Restrictions on Brands." Tucker, Catherine and Shuyi Yu, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6094-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "Social Distancing, Internet Access and Inequality." Chiou, Lesley and Catherine Tucker, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6098-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 6 insights on managing through crisis Work with remote work, facilitate peer-to-peer communication, confront supply chain shortfalls, and more. Jul 27, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) In times of crisis, digital businesses need to think about 'technology l... May 14, 2020 Prof. Catherine Tucker and co-author consider how to address the issue of technology access and inequity throughout the COVID-19 crisis. Faculty: Catherine Tucker Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) Buying consumer data? Tread carefully May 1, 2020 Tucker and co-author write: "The process by which data brokers create these segments is kept secret for competitive reasons." Faculty: Catherine Tucker Source: The New York Times Opinion: Are you an anti-influencer? Mar 5, 2020 Faculty: Duncan Simester Catherine Tucker Source: Financial Times Why my bad taste is the kiss of death Jan 17, 2020 Faculty: Duncan Simester Catherine Tucker Eric Arthur von Hippel Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
