Gonzalo Cisternas | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Gonzalo Cisternas curriculum vitae Support Staff Emily Fairbanks (617) 253-8959 manninge@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-523 gcistern@mit.edu (617) 324-7342 http://web.mit.edu/gcistern/www Title Associate Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Gonzalo Cisternas is an Associate Professor of Organizational Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Gonzalos interests include microeconomic theory, game theory, information economics, and corporate finance. He is particularly interested in dynamic incentives. Specifically, he studies how strategic behavior can be affected by the presence of asymmetric and incomplete information, and by the possibility of learning about the relevant economic environment. In studying these environments, he combines elements from game theory, dynamic optimization, and filtering theory.Gonzalo holds a Professional Degree in mathematical engineering (BS and MS in applied mathematics equivalent) and an MS in economics from University de Chile. He also holds an MA and a PhD in economics from Princeton University. Publications Google Scholar "Consumer Scores and Price Discrimination." Bonatti, Alessandro, and Gonzalo Cisternas. Review of Economic Studies. Forthcoming. Appendix. Download Paper. "Career Concerns and the Nature of Skills." Cisternas, Gonzalo. American Economic Journal: Microeconomics Vol. 10, No. 2 (2018): 152-189. Download Paper. "Two-Sided Learning and the Ratchet Principle." Cisternas, Gonzalo. The Review of Economic Studies Vol. 85, No. 1 (2018): 307-351. "Dynamic Oligopoly with Incomplete Information." Bonatti, Alessandro, Gonzalo Cisternas, and Juuso Toikka. Review of Economic Studies Vol. 84, No. 2 (2017): 503-546. Working Paper. "Sequential Procurement Auctions and Their Effect on Investment Decisions." Cisternas, Gonzalo and Nicols Figueroa. RAND Journal of Economics Vol. 46, No. 4 (2015): 824843. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
