Michael A. Cusumano | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Michael A. Cusumano linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Gilly Parker (617) 253-5074 gillyp_5@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-438 cusumano@mit.edu (617) 253-2574 (617) 253-2660 Title Sloan Management Review Distinguished Professor of Management Deputy Dean Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Michael A. Cusumano is the SMR Distinguished Professor of Management and Deputy Dean at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Previously he held a joint appointment in the School of Engineering. Professor Cusumano specializes in strategy, product development, and entrepreneurship in computer software as well as automobiles and consumer electronics. At MIT, he has recently taught Software & Internet Entrepreneurship as well as Advanced Strategic Management. During 2016-17, he was on leave as Special Vice President and Dean of Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the Tokyo University of Science, where he founded the Tokyo Entrepreneurship and Innovation Center and designed a new mid-career Management of Technology curriculum as well as a new business school that merged the Graduate School of Innovation and the School of Management.Cusumano received a BA degree from Princeton 1976 and a PhD from Harvard in 1984, and completed a postdoctoral fellowship in Production and Operations Management at the Harvard Business School during 1984-86. He is fluent in Japanese and has lived and worked in Japan for more than eight years, with two Fulbright Fellowships and a Japan Foundation Fellowship for studying at Tokyo University. He has been a Visiting Professor at Imperial College, Tokyo University, Hitotsubashi University, the University of St. Gallen, the University of Maryland, and Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. He has consulted and lectured for approximately 100 organizations, including Alcatel, Amadeus, AOL, ARM, AT&T, BMC Software, Business Objects, Cisco, Ericsson, Fiat, Ford, Fujitsu, GE, Fidelity, Hitachi, Huawei, i2 Technologies, IBM, Intel, Liberty Mutual, Lucent, Microsoft, Motorola, NASA, NEC, Nokia, NTT Data, Philips, Robert Bosch, Schlumberger, Siemens, Texas Instruments, Toyota, Toshiba, and Verizon. He is currently a director of two publicly listed financial services and technology companies: Orix Corporation in Japan and Ferratum Group in Europe. He is a former director of Patni Computer Systems in India (sold in 2011 for $1.2 billion) and Fixstars Corporation, a Japanese developer of high-performance software applications. He was recently a director of Zylotech, a predictive analytics company operating out of Cambridge, MA. He has served as editor-in-chief and chairman of the MIT Sloan Management Review and writes regularly on Technology Strategy and Management for Communications of the ACM. In 2009, he was named one of the most influential people in technology and IT by Silicon.com.Cusumano has published 14 books and more than 120 articles and columns. His latest book is The Business of Platforms: Strategy in the Age of Digital Competition, Innovation, and Power (2019, with Annabelle Gawer and David Yoffie). His prior book with David Yoffie, Strategy Rules: Five Timeless Lessons from Bill Gates, Andy Grove, and Steve Jobs (2015), has been translated into 18 languages and received wide media coverage from CNBC, Bloomberg News, The New York Times, The Economist, The Financial Times, Fast Company, and other media outlets. Other books include Staying Power (2010), based on the 2009 Oxford Clarendon Lectures and named one of the top books of 2011 by Strategy + Business magazine; and The Business of Software (2004), also named one of the best books of the year in Strategy + Business. Microsoft Secrets (1995, with Richard Selby) sold approximately 150,000 copies in 14 languages. Platform Leadership (2002, with Annabelle Gawer) is often considered the first management book to examine the phenomenon of industry-wide platforms and ecosystem-based competition. Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape and its Battle with Microsoft (1998, with David Yoffie), was named one of the top 10 business books of 1998 by Business Week, and played a central role in the Microsoft anti-trust trial. Honors Cusumano wins Abbie Griffin High Impact Award Michael Cusumano has won the 2019 Abbie Griffin High Impact Award, which recognizes the most influential article published in the Journal of Product Innovation Management in the last five years. Cusumanos winning paper, co-authored with Annabelle Gawar (University of Surrey, UK; 2000 MIT Sloan PhD in Management of Technology and Innovation), is entitled, Industry Platforms and Ecosystem Innovation (Journal of Product Innovation Management (2014) 31(3):417-433). The selection committee noted that his paper addresses a very important topic in todays academic research as well as managerial practice, has a large number of citations from the very best academic journals, and includes a number of concrete industry examples, and importantly, provides a set of managerial practices for effective platform leadership, as well as outlining several relevant platform-related research questions that are being tackled by researchers. Read More Michael Cusumano has been named one of the top 50 Agenda Setters in Information Technology Michael Cusumano has been named one of the top 50 2009 Agenda Setters in Information Technology by silicon.com "for altering the way the business cycle of tech firms is viewed." Read More Michael Cusumano's article, "Software Development Worldwide: The State of the Practice," was selected as a Top Pick Michael Cusumano's 2003 article in IEEE Software, "Software Development Worldwide: The State of the Practice," co-authored with Alan MacCormack, Chris Kemerer, and Bill Crandall, was selected by IEEE Software's editorial and advisory boards as one of its 25th-Anniversary Top Picks for full-length, peer-reviewed articles. Thirty-five articles were selected in total, and seven others, including "Software Development Worldwide," were nominated for follow-up reports. Read More Michael Cusumano has received an MIT-Balliol College Exchange Fellowship to spend a semester at Oxford University Michael Cusumano has received an MIT-Balliol College Exchange Fellowship to spend a semester at Oxford University, which he plans to do next spring. At that time, he will also deliver the 2009 Clarendon Lectures in Management Studies, which are hosted by the Said Business School and will be published as a book, on the theme "In Search of Best Practice: Enduring Ideas in the History of Technology Strategy and Innovation." Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Platformizing a Bad Business Does Not Make It a Good Business." Cusumano, Michael A. Communications of the ACM, January 2020. Featured Publication "The Evolution of Research on Industry Platforms." Cusumano, Michael A. Academy of Management Discovery Guidepost. Forthcoming. "Self-Driving Vehicle Technology: Progress and Promises." Cusumano, Michael A. Communications of the ACM, October 2020. "The Future of Platforms." Cusumano, Michael A., David B. Yoffie, and Annabelle Gawer. MIT Sloan Management Review, February 11, 2020. "Japan Will Become a World Leader Again, But in a Different Way from the Past." Cusumano, Michael A. Diamond Harvard Business Review, January 15, 2020. "An Analysis of Multi-Sided Platform Research over the Past Three Decades: Framework and Discussion." Jia, Xiao, Michael A. Cusumano, and Jin Chen, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5891-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2019. Load More Recent Insights MIT Sloan Experts The bigger some platforms get, the more money they lose Why do companies with such high demand lose so much money? Apr 21, 2020 Read More Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan faculty insights: 6 books from 2019 From the history of liberty to the future of R&D, here are some of the books from MIT Sloan faculty that arrived in 2019. Nov 25, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Quartz What if antitrust regulators forced Google to sell Chrome? Nov 11, 2020 Owning the world's most popular web browser gives Google an opening to snoop on users' browsing activity in new ways. Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Michael A. Cusumano Source: Marketplace (Audio) IBM evolves yet again this time into the cloud Oct 9, 2020 In tech, commodities don't come with high-profit margins. So IBM started dipping its toe into the cloud business. Faculty: Michael A. Cusumano Source: The Economist Google's problems are bigger than just the antitrust case Jul 30, 2020 Alphabet is a conglomerate of businesses that sometimes appear to have little in common. Michael Cusumano says It might be a one-trick pony. Faculty: Michael A. Cusumano Source: The New York Times Slack accuses Microsoft of illegally crushing competition Jul 22, 2020 Online collaboration platforms and related tools have become as important to us as smartphones and computers, said Michael Cusumano Faculty: Michael A. Cusumano Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
