Namrata Kala | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Namrata Kala curriculum vitae Support Staff Nancy Suyo (617) 715-2845 NSUYO@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-517 kala@mit.edu (203) 500-4675 Title W. Maurice Young (1961) Career Development Professor of Management Assistant Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Namrata Kala is the W.Maurice Young (1961) Career Development Professor of Management and an Assistant Professor in Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.She is an economist with research interests in environmental and development economics. Her current research projects include studying how firms and households learn about and adapt to environmental change and regulation, the returns to environmental technologies, and the returns to worker training and incentives.From fall 2015 to 2017, Namrata was a Prize Fellow in Economics, History, and Politics at Harvard University and a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She received her PhD in environmental economics from the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale. She also holds a BA (Honors) in Economics from Delhi University, and an MA in International and Development Economics from Yale University. Honors NBER appoints Kala as a Faculty Research Fellow The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) has recently appointed four MIT Sloan faculty members as Faculty Research Fellows, including Namrata Kala, who has been appointed a fellow in the Development Economics program. Christian Catalini, Christopher Palmer, and Claudia Steinwender were also appointed as fellows. The NBER is the nations leading nonprofit economic research organization, whose affiliates have included 27 Nobel Prize winners and 13 past chairs of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers. While the NBER remains impartial and does not make public policy recommendations, NBER research findings are disseminated among academics, public policy makers, and business professionals, bringing critical information to many important public policy debates. Read More Publications Google Scholar "Booms, Busts, and Household Enterprise: Evidence from Coffee Farmers in Tanzania." Adhvaryu, Achyuta, Namrata Kala, and Anant Nyshadham. World Bank Economic Review. Forthcoming. "Linguistic Distance and Market Integration in India." Fenske, James, and Namrata Kala. Journal of Economic History. Forthcoming. "The Light and the Heat: Productivity Co-benefits of Energy-saving Technology." Adhvaryu, Achyuta, Namrata Kala, and Anant Nyshadham. Review of Economics and Statistics Vol. 102, No. 4 (2020): 779-792. NBER Preprint. "The Green Revolution and Infant Mortality in India." Bharadwaj, Prashant, James Fenske, Namrata Kala, and Rinchan Ali Mirza. Journal of Health Economics Vol. 71, (2020): 102314. Download Preprint. "1807: Economic Shocks, Conflict and the Slave Trade." Fenske, James, and Namrata Kala. Journal of Development Economics Vol. 126, (2017): 66-76. "Climate and the Slave Trade." Fenske, James, and Namrata Kala. Journal of Development Economics Vol. 112, (2015): 19-32. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A little management attention can go a long way Attentive managers move workers when their environments get too toxic, new research finds. Jul 11, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 4 things you need to know about soft skills MIT Sloan experts share their knowledge and experience about the benefits of critical thinking and collaboration. Feb 6, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Energy Next (India) (Opinion Piece) Energy efficient office lighting and its impact on employee productivity Mar 27, 2019 Faculty: Namrata Kala The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
