John D.C. Little | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John D.C. Little curriculum vitae Support Staff Briana Blake (617) 324-4095 brianabl@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-537 jlittle@mit.edu (617) 253-3738 (617) 258-7597 Title Institute Professor, Emeritus Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center John Little is a Professor Post Tenure at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Little has had a distinguished career spanning five decades. He has published seminal papers in operations research methodology, traffic signal control, decision support systems, and especially marketing. In operations research he is best known for his proof of the queuing formula L = W, commonly known as Little's Law. Considered a pioneer in marketing science, Little has done research on a broad set of modeling and decision support issues, including models of individual choice behavior, adaptive control of promotional spending, and marketing mix models for consumer packaged goods.He is coeditor with Blattberg and Glazer of The Marketing Information Revolution, (HBS Press, 1994). When the Internet burst on the scene, Little was quickly attracted to e-commerce and cotaught the first course on the subject at MIT Sloan. In addition to his continuing interest in consumer packaged goods, he is currently conducting research on marketing automation in Internet retailing.Among Little's honors, he has been elected to the National Academy of Engineering, and has received the Parlin Award and the Paul D. Converse Award of the American Marketing Association, as well as the George E. Kimball Medal of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS). He is a Fellow of INFORMS and of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Honors John Little wins Sheth Foundation Medal John Little received the 2014 Sheth Foundation Medal for Exceptional Contribution to Marketing Scholarship and Practice. The award recognizes "enduring and transformational contributions" to both marketing scholarship and marketing practice. He received the award at an exclusive banquet during the annual INFORMS Marketing Science Conference, at Emory University in Atlanta. A special session followed, in which Professors John Hauser of MIT, Jim Lattin of Stanford, and John Roberts of the London Business School described Little's marketing accomplishments in detail. Read More John Little was honored at a "John D. C. Little Festschrift Celebration," which took place at the 2009 INFORMS Marketing Science Conference John Little was honored by friends, colleagues, former students, and many others at a "John D. C. Little Festschrift Celebration," which took place June 6-7 at the 2009 INFORMS Marketing Science Conference held at the University of Michigan. A festschrift is a volume of papers written to honor an individual, which in Little's case, will eventually include about 20 papers and be published in 2010. Among John's achievements, he is famous for Little's Law in queuing, decision calculus models for marketing managers, his paper on marketing decision support systems, and his role in creating marketing science as a field. Other well-known research by John includes papers on choosing advertising media schedules, adaptive control of promotional spending, brand-size choice models calibrated on scanner panel data, and marketing mix models for consumer packaged goods. Read More John Hauser and John Little were elected as inaugural Fellows of ISMS John Hauser and John D.C. Little were elected as inaugural Fellows of ISMS (the INFORMS Society of Marketing Science) at the 30th Annual Marketing Science Conference in Vancouver, BC. The 10 Fellows Awards were given in recognition of significant, long-term contributions in research, education, and service to the Society of Marketing Science's efforts to improve the understanding and practice of marketing. Read More John Little paper reprinted for the January/February 2008 special issue of Marketing Science The papers being reprinted in the Classics Issue is: Peter Guadagni and John Little, "A Logit Model of Brand Choice Calibrated on Scanner Data," originally published in 1983. This Classics Issue celebrates foundation research that is highly cited. Editorials from Editors-in-Chief along with author commentaries are included with the articles in this special issue. Read More Publications Google Scholar "Little's Law as Viewed on Its 50th Anniversary." Little, John D.C. Operations Research Vol. 59, No. 3 (2011): 536-549. "A Logit Model of Brand Choice Calibrated on Scanner Data." Guadagni, Peter M. and John D.C. Little. Marketing Science Vol. 27, No. 1 (2008): 29-48. "Commentary on: A Logit Model of Brand Choice Calibrated on Scanner Data. A 25th Anniversary Perspective." Guadagni, Peter M. and John D.C. Little. Marketing Science Vol. 27, No. 1 (2008): 26-28. "Choice in Interactive Environments." Steckel, Joel H., Russell S. Winer, Randolph E.Bucklin, Benedict G.C. Dellaert, Xavier Dreze, Gerald Haubl, Sandy D. Jap, John D.C. Little, Tom Meyvis, Alan L. Montgomery and Arvind Rangaswamy. Marketing Letters Vol. 16, No. 3-4 (2005): 309-320. "Comments on Managers and Models: The Concept of a Decision Calculus' -- Managerial Models for Practice." Little, John D.C. Management Science Vol. 50, No. 12_s (2004): 1854-1860. "Models and Managers: The Concept of a Decision Calculus." Little, John D.C. Management Science Vol. 50, No. 12_s (2004): 1841-1853. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
