Alessandro Bonatti | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Alessandro Bonatti linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Dagmar Trantinova (617) 253-9748 dagmar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-516 bonatti@mit.edu (617) 253-7190 (617) 258-6786 http://www.mit.edu/~bonatti Title John Norris Maguire (1960) Professor Associate Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Alessandro Bonatti is the John Norris Maguire (1960) Professor and an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on (a) the provision of incentives in research-intensive and creative industries, and (b) on the impact of technological advances on firms online advertising and pricing strategies.Bonatti holds an MA, an MPhil, and a PhD in economics from Yale University. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "The Design and Price of Information." Bergemann, Dirk, Alessandro Bonatti and Alex Smolin. American Economic Review Vol. 108, No. 1 (2018): 1-48. D-Space. Featured Publication "The Politics of Compromise." Bonatti, Alessandro, and Heikki Rantakari. American Economic Review Vol. 106, No. 2 (2016): 229-259. D-Space. "Consumer Scores and Price Discrimination." Bonatti, Alessandro, and Gonzalo Cisternas. Review of Economic Studies. Forthcoming. Appendix. Working Paper. "The Economics of Social Data: An Introduction." Bergemann, Dirk, and Alessandro Bonatti, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5879-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2019. "Markets for Information: An Introduction." Bergemann, Dirk and Alessandro Bonatti. Annual Review of Economics Vol. 11, (2019): 85-107. VoxEU. Working Paper. "The Career Effects of Scandal: Evidence from Scientific Retractions." Azoulay, Pierre, Alessandro Bonatti, and Joshua Krieger. Research Policy Vol. 46, No. 9 (2017): 1552-1569. Working Paper. Load More Recent Insights Press Researchers design new pricing system for selling large amounts of data Researchers, including MIT Sloan's Alessandro Bonatti, have designed what they believe is an improved, quantitative way for big-data providers to price the information they sell to informed customers. Oct 4, 2017 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Determining the effect of scientific retractions Research measures citation penalty for authors of recanted work Jul 16, 2015 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
