Daron Acemoglu | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Daron Acemoglu Get in Touch Building E52-446 DARON@MIT.EDU (617) 253-1927 http://economics.mit.edu/faculty/acemoglu/index.htm Title Elizabeth and James Killian Professor of Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Daron Acemoglu is Elizabeth and James Killian Professor of Economics in the Department of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has received a BA in economics at the University of York, 1989, M.Sc. in mathematical economics and econometrics at the London School of Economics, 1990, and Ph.D. in economics at the London School of Economics in 1992.He is an elected fellow of the National Academy of Sciences (United States), the Science Academy (Turkey), the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Econometric Society, the European Economic Association, and the Society of Labor Economists. He has received numerous awards and fellowships, including the inaugural T. W. Shultz Prize from the University of Chicago in 2004, and the inaugural Sherwin Rosen Award for outstanding contribution to labor economics in 2004, Distinguished Science Award from the Turkish Sciences Association in 2006, the John von Neumann Award, Rajk College, Budapest in 2007.He was the recipient of the John Bates Clark Medal in 2005, awarded every two years to the best economist in the United States under the age of 40 by the American Economic Association, and the Erwin Plein Nemmers prize awarded every two years for work of lasting significance in economics. He holds Honorary Doctorates from the University of Utrecht, Bosporus University, and the University of Athens.Daron Acemoglus areas of research include political economy, economic development and growth, human capital theory, growth theory, innovation, search theory, network economics and learning. His recent research focuses on the political, economic and social causes of differences in economic development across societies; the factors affecting the institutional and political evolution of nations; and how technology impacts growth and distribution of resources and is itself determined by economic and social incentives. In addition to scholarly articles, Daron Acemoglu has published four books: Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy (joint with James A. Robinson), which was awarded the Woodrow Wilson and the William Riker prizes, Introduction to Modern Economic Growth, Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty (joint with James A. Robinson), which was a New York Times bestseller in 2012; and Principles of Economics (joint with David Laibson and John List). Publications "Robots and Jobs: Evidence from US Labor Markets." Acemoglu, Daron and Pascual Restrepo. Journal of Political Economy Vol. 128, No. 6 (2020): 2188-2244. "The Upside of Populism." Acemoglu, Daron, and James Robinson. Foreign Policy, October 2019. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter The case for an 'automation tax' Some automation displaces workers and lowers wages. A new report argues that taxing the right technologies could help remedy this. Oct 28, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Measuring the actual impact of robots on jobs Industrial robots do reduce jobs and wages especially for workers in the automotive industry and certain parts of the country. Jul 29, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Project Syndicate Daron Acemoglu says more Nov 3, 2020 "I proposed gradual radicalism as a prescription for addressing the urgent challenges facing the US." Faculty: Daron Acemoglu Source: The Economist Economists are turning to culture to explain wealth and poverty Sep 5, 2020 Work by Acemoglu and Johnson has found a further element of randomness which may explain contemporary patterns of wealth and poverty. Faculty: Simon Johnson Daron Acemoglu Source: The Wall Street Journal COVID-19 is dividing the American worker Aug 22, 2020 Automation can explain labor share decline, stagnant median wages and declining real wages at the bottom. Faculty: Daron Acemoglu Source: TIME Millions of Americans have lost jobs in the pandemic and robots and AI... Aug 6, 2020 Look at the business model of Google, Facebook, Netflix. They're not in the business of creating new tasks for humans, says Daron Acemoglu. Faculty: Daron Acemoglu Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
