Andrew W. Lo | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Andrew W. Lo Support Staff Mavanee Nealon (617) 253-4240 mavanee@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-618 alo-admin@mit.edu (617) 253-0920 (617) 258-6855 http://alo.mit.edu Title Charles E. and Susan T. Harris Professor Professor, Finance Director, Laboratory for Financial Engineering 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Operations Research Center MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy Andrew W. Lo is the Charles E. and Susan T. Harris Professor, a Professor of Finance, and the Director of the Laboratory for Financial Engineering at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His current research spans five areas: evolutionary models of investor behavior and adaptive markets, systemic risk and financial regulation, quantitative models of financial markets, financial applications of machine-learning techniques and secure multi-party computation, and healthcare finance. Recent projects include: deriving risk aversion, loss aversion, probability matching, and other behaviors as emergent properties of evolution in stochastic environments; constructing new measures of systemic risk and comparing them across time and systemic events; applying spectral analysis to investment strategies to decompose returns into fundamental frequencies; and developing new statistical tools for predicting clinical trial outcomes, incorporating patient preferences into the drug approval process, and accelerating biomedical innovation via novel financing structures.Lo has published extensively in academic journals (see http://alo.mit.edu) and his most recent book is Adaptive Markets: Financial Evolution at the Speed of Thought. His awards include Batterymarch, Guggenheim, and Sloan Fellowships; the Paul A. Samuelson Award; the Eugene Fama Prize; the IAFE-SunGard Financial Engineer of the Year; the Global Association of Risk Professionals Risk Manager of the Year; the Harry M. Markowitz Award; the Managed Futures Pinnacle Achievement Award; one of TIMEs 100 most influential people in the world; and awards for teaching excellence from both Wharton and MIT. His book Adaptive Markets has also received a number of awards, listed here. He is a Fellow of Academia Sinica; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; the Econometric Society; and the Society of Financial Econometrics.Lo is also a principal investigator at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, an affiliated faculty member of the MIT Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, an external faculty member of the Santa Fe Institute, and a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He is a member of the New York Federal Reserve Boards Financial Advisory Roundtable, FINRAs Economic Advisory Committee, the National Academy of Sciences Board on Mathematical Sciences and Their Applications, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Centers Board of Overseers, and the boards of Roivant Sciences and the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research.Lo holds a BA in economics from Yale University and an AM and PhD in economics from Harvard University. Honors Lo wins Jamieson Prize Andrew Lo and Kara Blackburn were each awarded the 2019Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Pinnacle Achievement Award Given to Lo Andrew W. Lo is the winner of the 2018 Pinnacle Achievement Award from CME Group and BarclayHedge. This is the highest recognition of outstanding achievement among the Managed Futures Pinnacle Awards honoring top managed futures industry leaders. A video spotlighting Lo as the winner can be found here (scroll down for video to listen to his thoughts on his work). Read More GARP honors Lo as Risk Manager of the Year Andrew W. Lo has been named Risk Manager of the Year for 2017 by the Global Association of Risk Professionals (GARP). Lo was cited for his extensive and distinguished academic work and contributions to the risk management profession. Andrew is an inspiration to all of us who believe that risk management is everyone's responsibility and should be solidly embedded in the culture and decision-making processes of every organization, said Richard Apostolik, GARP president and CEO. Apostolik added that Lo joins a distinguished line of honorees who have contributed in exceptional ways to risk management and the risk profession. Read More Los book wins PROSE Award Andrew W. Los book "Adaptive Markets: Financial Evolution at the Speed of Thought" (Princeton University Press, 2017) has won the 2018 Professional and Scholarly Excellence (PROSE) Award for Excellence in Social Sciences, from the Professional and Scholarly Publishing Division of the Association of American Publishers. The annual awards recognize the very best in professional and scholarly publishing by bringing attention to distinguished books, journals, and electronic content in 58 categories and have been judged since 1976 by peer publishers, librarians, and medical professionals. The award was presented during the PSP Annual Conference in Washington, D.C. Read More Markowitz Award given to Lo Andrew W. Lo has won the 2017 Harry M. Markowitz Award, sponsored jointly by the Journal of Investment Management and New Frontier Advisors, LLC. This annual award honoring the legacy of financial economist and mathematician Harry Markowitz supports future research and innovation in practical asset management. Los winning paper, chosen from the 2017 papers published in JOIM, is entitled, Moores Law vs. Murphys Law in the Financial System: Whos Winning? (Journal of Investment Management, 15(1):17-38). Read More Publications SSRN "A Brain Capital Grand Strategy: Toward Economic Reimagination." Smith, Erin, Diab Ali, Bill Wilkerson, Walter D. Dawson, Kunmi Sobowale, Charles Reynolds III, Michael Berk, Helen Lavretsky, Dilip Jeste, Chee Ng, Jair C. Soares, Gowri Aragam, Zoe Wainer, Husseini K. Manji, Julio Licinio, Andrew W. Lo, Eric Storch, Ernestine Fu, Marion Leboyer, Ioannis Tarnanas, Agustin Ibanez, Facundo Manes, Sarah Caddick, Howard Fillit, Ryan Abbott, Ian H. Robertson, Sandra B. Chapman, Rhoda Au, Cara M. Altimus, William Hynes, Patrick Brannelly, Jeffrey Cummings, and Harris A. Eyre. Molecular Psychiatry. Forthcoming. "Financing Correlated Drug Development Projects." Lo, Andrew W., and Kien Wei Siah. Journal of Structured Finance. Forthcoming. Simulation Software. Download Paper. Healthcare Finance. Lo, Andrew W. and Shomesh Chaudhuri. Forthcoming. In Pursuit of the Perfect Portfolio. Foerster, Stephen R., and Andrew W. Lo. Forthcoming. "Is It Real or Is It Randomized?: A Financial Turing Test." Hasanhodzic, Jasmina, Andrew W. Lo, and Emanuele Viola. Journal of Portfolio Management. Forthcoming. SSRN Preprint. "Macroeconomic Models for Monetary Policy: A Critical Review from a Finance Perspective." Dou, Winston, Andrew W. Lo, Ameya Muley and Harald Uhlig. Annual Review of Financial Economics. Forthcoming. SSRN Preprint. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 ways to stabilize the COVID-19 economy Financial experts recommend a second stimulus package, a vaccine timeline, guards against inflation, and other government responses to the crisis. Jul 27, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 3 policy proposals to bolster the post-lockdown economy Financial experts call for more aid to small businesses, more liquidity for banks, penalty-free access to retirement accounts and a safe return to work. Jun 3, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Wall Street Journal The stock market barely faltered in the 1918-20 pandemic. Is history rep... Sep 7, 2020 Andrew Lo says that what the government did this spring was to put the economy into the equivalent of a medically induced coma. Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Source: Freakonomics Radio (Ep. 430) (Audio) Will a COVID-19 vaccine change the future of medical research? Aug 26, 2020 Andrew Lo says: "We actually have the ability to develop therapeutics for many of these diseases, if not cures. So, why aren't we doing it?" Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Source: Chronicle of Philanthropy (Opinion Piece) With donations down, nonprofits need to do a better job of managing thei... Aug 4, 2020 "Factors such as size, management, and investment allocation significantly affect how much revenue endowments generate." Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Egor Matveyev Source: USA Today A COVID-19 vaccine at what price? Should all Americans be able to get a ... Jul 21, 2020 To address COVID-19 and many other diseases, governments around the world need to have systemic policies for funding vaccine development. Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
