Zeynep Ton | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Zeynep Ton twitter linkedin Support Staff Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-581 zton@mit.edu (617) 715-4838 http://zeynepton.com Title Professor of the Practice, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Management Science Zeynep Ton is a Professor of the Practice at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Zeynep's research focuses on how organizations can design and manage their operations in a way that satisfies employees, customers, and investors simultaneously. Her work has been published in a variety of journals, including Organization Science, Production and Operations Management, and the Harvard Business Review.In 2014, Zeynep published her findings in a book, The Good Jobs Strategy: How the Smartest Companies Invest in Employees to Lower Costs and Boost Profits. The book draws on 15 years of research to show that the key to offering good jobs to employees, great service to customers, and superior returns to investors is combining investment in employees with specific operational choices that increase employees productivity, contribution, and motivation.After her book was released, company exeutives started reaching out to Zeynep to understand how to implement the Good Jobs Strategy in their organizations, or to describe how they were already adopting the strategy. Zeynep cofounded the nonprofit Good Jobs Institute to help them transform through assessments, workshops, and longer term partnerships.Prior to MIT Sloan, Zeynep spent seven years at Harvard Business School. She has received several awards for teaching excellence both at HBS and MIT Sloan.Zeynep lives in Cambridge, Massachusetts with her husband and four children. A native of Turkey, she first came to the US on a volleyball scholarship from the Pennsylvania State University. She received her BS in industrial and manufacturing engineering there and her DBA from the Harvard Business School. Publications SSRN Featured Publication "The Case for Good Jobs." Ton, Zeynep. Harvard Business Review, December 2017. Featured Publication "Why Good Jobs' are Good for Retailers." Zeynep, Ton. Harvard Business Review, January 2012. "If Higher Pay Is Profitable, Why Is It So Rare? Modeling Competing Strategies in Mass Market Services." Rahmandad, Hazhir, and Zeynep Ton. Organization Science. Forthcoming. Supplementary Materials. "How 4 Retailers Became 'Best Places to Work'." Ton, Zeynep, and Sarah Kalloch. Harvard Business Review, January 2017. The Good Jobs Strategy: How the Smartest Companies Invest in Employees to Lower Costs and Boost Profits. Ton, Zeynep. Boston, MA: New Harvest, 2014. "The Effect of Product Variety and Inventory Levels on Sales: A Longitudinal Study." Ton, Zeynep and Ananth Raman. Production and Operations Management Journal Vol. 19, No. 5 (2010): 546-560. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Our top 5 Working Definitions of 2019 Words and ideas that stood out this year. Dec 10, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 18 quotes for business and management from 2019 Top of mind at MIT Sloan this year: The future of work, climate change, digital transformation, and, above all, leadership. Dec 9, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Forbes The upside of the pandemic: A significant opportunity Oct 15, 2020 A period of low demand will also be a period of low performance pressure." Faculty: Zeynep Ton Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) Equality in the U.S. starts with better jobs Aug 17, 2020 "...even in low-cost service settings, paying higher wages and treating workers with respect and dignity can be profit-maximizing." Faculty: Zeynep Ton Hazhir Rahmandad Source: MPR News with Kerri Miller (Podcast) The jobs America needs to support workers and the economy Jul 15, 2020 Professor Zeynep Ton takes a look at what makes some jobs bad and how our economy could invest in better jobs. Faculty: Zeynep Ton Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) Rebuilding the economy around good jobs May 22, 2020 Prof. Ton writes: ...this is the time for more leaders to have the courage and commitment to rebuild their businesses with good jobs." Faculty: Zeynep Ton Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
