JoAnne Yates | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty JoAnne Yates curriculum vitae Support Staff Virginia Geiger (617) 253-2602 vgeiger@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-335 jyates@mit.edu (617) 253-7157 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jyates/ Title Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management, Emerita Professor, Managerial Communication and Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Information Technology Managerial Communication Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence JoAnne Yates is the Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management, Emerita and Professor Post Tenure of Work and Organization Studies andManagerial Communication at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Yates developed MIT Sloan's Managerial Communication curriculum starting in 1980. From 2007-2012 she served as Deputy Dean for programs at MIT Sloan. Her research is both historical and contemporary.Her most recent historical book, coauthored with her husband, a professor of political science at Wellesley College, is JoAnne Yates and Craig N. Murphy, Engineering Rules: Global Standard Setting Since 1880 (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2019), a study of the rise and important role of voluntary standard setting in the global economy. As part of the longer project that culminated in this book, they also wrote an initial monograph on one standard-setting organization: Craig N. Murphy and JoAnne Yates, The International Organization for Standardization (IS0): Global Governance through Voluntary Consensus (London: Routledge Press, 2009). Her first, award-winning historical book is Control through Communication: The Rise of System in American Management (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989), which traces the emergence of the communication and information system characteristic of US companies during most of the 20th century. Her second single-authored book, Structuring the Information Age: Life Insurance and Technology in the Twentieth Century (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2005), provides insight into the largely unexplored evolution of information processing in the commercial sector and the underrated influence of corporate users in shaping the history of modern technologies in the United States.In her research on contemporary organizations she has collaborated with Professor Wanda Orlikowski (of MIT Sloans Information Technology group) and various students and researchers to study how groups and organizations use communication and information technologies, and how that use shapes their work. Specific studies looked at the use of technologies such as electronic mail, instant messaging, the BlackBerry, and corporate blogging.She is currently also working with a team of faculty from the Work and Organization Studies Group on research aiming to improve academic performance of underrepresented minority students.Yates holds a BA from Texas Christian University as well as an MA and a PhD from the University of North Carolina. Publications Google Scholar "The Memo." Yates, JoAnne. In Information: A Historical Companion, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, Forthcoming. "Values, Media, and Genres for Standardization." Yates, JoAnne. In Historical Studies in Computing, Information, and Society: Insights from the Flatiron Lectures, edited by William Aspray, New York, NY: Springer, 2020. Engineering Rules: Global Standard Setting Since 1880. Yates, JoAnne and Craig N. Murphy. Baltimore, MD: John Hopkins University Press, 2019. "The Industrial Standardization Movement and the World Outside Europe and North America." Craig N. Murphy and JoAnne Yates. In 2nd International Symposium on Standardization and Governance, Hunan University, Changsha: October 2017. "The International Standardization Community and Movement: Advancing Industrial Civilization from the 1880s to the Present." Craig N. Murphy and JoAnne Yates. In Digitalisation: Challenges and Opportunities for StandardisationEURAS Proceedings 2017, edited by Kai Jakobs and Knut Blind, Aachen: June 2017. "The Globalizing Governance of International Communications: Market Creation and Voluntary Consensus Standard Setting." Murphy, Craig N., and JoAnne Yates. Journal of Policy History Vol. 27, No. 3 (2015): 550-558. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
