Joann de Zegher | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Joann de Zegher curriculum vitae Support Staff Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-585 jfz@mit.edu (617) 324-0627 https://www.jfdezegher.com/ Title Maurice F. Strong Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Food Supply Chain Analytics and Sensing Initiative Joann de Zegher is the Maurice F. Strong Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her research focuses on the design of operational strategies, technological innovations and algorithms to advance social and environmental impact in informal, first-mile, and global supply chains.She holds an MS in econometrics and management science from Erasmus University Rotterdam, and a PhD from Stanford University. Honors de Zegher wins Peoples Choice Award Joann de Zegher won the Peoples Choice Award at the 2019 Early-Career Sustainable OM Workshop, where she presented her most recent working paper. Her winning working paper, co-authored with Hamsa Bastani (Wharton), is entitled, Do Policies with Limited Enforcement Reduce Harm? Evidence from Transshipment Bans. Read More Publications Featured Publication "Companies Contribution to Sustainability Through Global Supply Chains." Thorlakson, Tannis, Joann F. de Zegher, and Eric F. Lambin. Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences Vol. 115, No. 9 (2018): 2072-2077. Stanford Policy Research Brief. Sustainable Brands. GreenBiz. Science 360. Stanford News. Science Daily. Download Paper. "Are Bans Effective Despite Limited Enforcement? Evidence from High Seas Management." Bastani, Hamsa, and Joann de Zegher, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5743-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, December 2019. "Sustaining Rainforests and Smallholders by Eliminating Payment Delay in a Commodity Supply ChainIt Takes a Village." de Zegher Joann, Dan Iancu, and Erica Plambeck, Working Paper. 2019. "Designing Contracts and Sourcing Channels to Create Shared Value." de Zegher, Joann F., Dan A. Iancu, and Hau L. Lee. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management Vol. 21, No. 2 (2019): 271-289. Online Appendix. "Crowdsourcing Market Information from Competitors." de Zegher, Joann and Irene Lo, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5888-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2019. "Excess Demand for Unskilled Labor Drives Forced Labor. Evidence from Myanmar and Thailand." de Zegher, Joann, B. Liu, Lisa Rende Taylor, and Mark Taylor, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5890-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2019. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan paper shows how to increase widespread access to market information Prof. Joann de Zegher suggests that crowdsourcing price information from market participants through a carefully-designed information-sharing platform can improve decision-making and increase revenue. Jun 11, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Meet MIT Sloans 11 new faculty members The new professors bring interest and instruction in machine learning, human behavior, industrial organization, and more. Aug 30, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: African Eye Report MIT sloan paper shows how to increase widespread access to market inform... Jun 11, 2020 Prof. Joann de Zegher is looking at whether a digital platform could be used to efficiently crowdsource market information. Faculty: Joann de Zegher The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
