Jonathan A. Parker | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jonathan A. Parker twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Carlos Pena (617) 253-5858 CPENA@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-642 JAPARKER@MIT.EDU (617) 253-7218 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/japarker/ Title Robert C. Merton (1970) Professor of Financial Economics Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy On leave 2019-2020Jonathan A. Parker is the Robert C. Merton (1970) Professor of Finance and codirector of the MIT Golub Center for Finance and Policy. He has held numerous service positions and consulting positions, including Area Head of Economics, Finance and Accounting at Sloan, editor of the NBER Macroeconomics Annual, and special adviser on Financial Stability for the Office of Financial Stability in the U.S. Department of the Treasury in 2009. He currently serves an economic adviser for the Congressional Budget Office, a visiting scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, an academic advisor to the JP Morgan Chase Institute, a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, and a member of the Board of Editors of the American Economic Review. An expert in finance, macroeconomics, and household behavior, Parker has published widely on topics such as macroeconomic risks and asset returns, fiscal stabilization policy, national saving, household financial decisions, the measurement of business cycles, and modeling human economic behavior.Current Research Focus: Parker works on issues in household finance, FinTech, financial markets, and public policy. Current research topics include household portfolios, the evolution of financial services, the regulation of consumer finance, big data in financial markets, and the efficacy of recent policies like economic stimulus payments and the "Cash for Clunkers" program. Publications Featured Publication "Why Don't Households Smooth Consumption? Evidence from a 25 Million Dollar Experiment." Parker, Jonathan A. American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics Vol. 9, No. 4 (2017): 153-183. Publisher Page. Online appendix. Featured Publication "Optimal Time-Inconsistent Beliefs: Misplanning, Procrastination, and Commitment." Brunnermeier, Markus K., Filippos Papakonstantinou, and Jonathan A. Parker. Management Science Vol. 63, No. 5 (2017): 1318-1340. Online Appendix. NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2019, Volume 34. Eichenbaum, Martin S., Erik Hurst, and Jonathan A. Parker (Eds.). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, Forthcoming. "Accelerator or Brake? Cash for Clunkers, Household Liquidity, and Aggregate Demand." Green, Daniel, Brain T. Melzer, Jonathan A. Parker, and Arcenis Rojas. American Economic Journal: Economic Policy Vol. 12, No. 4 (2020): 178-211. NBER Working Paper 22878. Blog Summary. "Revenue Collapses and the Consumption of Small Business Owners in the Early Stages of the COVID-19 Pandemic." Kim, Olivia S., Jonathan A. Parker, and Antoinette Schoar, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6221-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2020. "Transferring Information Between Marketing Campaigns to Improve Targeting Policies." Timoshenko, Artem, Marat Ibragimov, Duncan Simester, Jonathan A. Parker, and Antoinette Schoar, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6220-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2020. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 3 policy proposals to bolster the post-lockdown economy Financial experts call for more aid to small businesses, more liquidity for banks, penalty-free access to retirement accounts and a safe return to work. Jun 3, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: CNBC (Video) Second wave of coronavirus infections could cause a worse economic disas... May 21, 2020 Prof. Jonathan Parker says: It's crazy to think we can flip the national light switch back on and reopen the economy nationally." (00:38) Faculty: Jonathan A. Parker Source: Profit & Loss Bailout for large corps a 'grave mistake,' say MIT professors Mar 24, 2020 Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Jonathan A. Parker Antoinette Schoar David Thesmar Haoxiang Zhu The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
