Nick Joseph Pudar | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nick Joseph Pudar Get in Touch Building E60-300 pudar@mit.edu (248) 880-7105 Title Senior Lecturer, System Dynamics About Nick Pudar is a Senior Lecturer in System Dynamics at the MIT Sloan School of Management, focused on business redesign and growth.Nick is also the managing director of StackView Advisory LLC, a strategy consultancy providing services in the areas of: business redesign and growth, business simulation modeling, advanced mobility solutions, blockchain technologies and their applications, and strategic assumption surfacing and testing.Nick serves on theboard of directors for the Mobility Open Blockchain Initiative, a nonprofit organization promoting standards and accelerating adoption of blockchain, distributed ledger, and related technologies.Prior to consulting, Nick was director of corporate strategy at General Motors, where he focused on new business growth arenas, and explored options to leverage new technologies, new mobility business models, and emerging consumer expectations. He was also a senior executive at GMs OnStar and Maven subsidiaries. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
