Vivek F. Farias | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Vivek F. Farias Support Staff Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-566 vivekf@mit.edu (617) 253-7659 (617) 258-7579 http://web.mit.edu/vivekf/www/ Title Patrick J. McGovern (1959) Professor Professor 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Vivek Farias is the Patrick J. McGovern (1959) Professor and a Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on the development of new methodologies for large-scale dynamic optimization under uncertainty, and the application of these methodologies to the design of practical revenue management strategies across various industries ranging from airlines and retail to online advertising. Farias is a recipient of the 2006 INFORMS MSOM Student Paper prize for a research paper judged to be the best in the field of operations management. A consultant in the finance industry, he most recently contributed to GMO LLCs first successful high-frequency algorithmic trading strategy.Farias holds a BS in computer engineering from the University of Arizona, and a PhD in electrical engineering from Stanford University. Honors Farias wins teaching award Vivek Farias has won a 2020 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for his work teaching on campus and/or remotely. Farias won the award along with fellow Sloan faculty members Kara Blackburn, Michelle Hanlon, Alexandre Jacquillat, Miro Kazakoff, Ben Shields, and Rodrigo Verdi. These student-nominated awards recognize faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.This recognition also gives the MIT community the opportunity to learn from their innovative practices. The awards were co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.This year, students submitted a total of 487 nominations for 232 faculty and instructors, and 30 winners were selected by Dean of Digital Learning Krishna Rajagopal and Vice Chancellor Ian Waitz, with help from MIT Open Learning staff. Read More Farias wins 2020 Jamieson Prize Vivek Farias and Eric So (Accounting) were each awarded the 2020 Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence. The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award is the most prestigious teaching prize offered by the school. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. The Jamieson faculty prize is selected by a review committee at MIT. Read More Farias' Paper a finalist for Wagner Prize Vivek F. Farias paper, Primal-Dual Algorithms for Order Fulfillment at Urban Outfitters, Inc., was a Finalist for the INFORMS 2018 Daniel H. Wagner Prize for Excellence in Operations Research Practice. Farias co-authors were J.M. Andrews, A.I. Khojandi, and C.M. Yan. The Wagner Prize was established in 1998 to commemorate the life and work of Dr. Daniel H. Wagner. Read More Vivek Farias paper awarded Vivek Farias has received the 2016 Best OM Paper in Management Science Award from the MSOM (Manufacturing and Service Operations Management) Society of INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences). Vivek was honored for his 2013 paper (co-authored with Srikanth Jagabathula of NYU Stern and Devavrat Shah of MIT EECS) entitled, A Nonparametric Approach to Modeling Choice with Limited Data. Read More Vivek Farias paper honored Vivek Farias has won the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences Revenue Management and Pricing section prize, which recognizes the best contribution to the science of pricing and revenue management published in English. Farias was honored for his 2013 Management Science paper (co-authored with Srikanth Jagabathula of NYU Stern and Devavrat Shah of MIT EECS), A Nonparametric Approach to Modeling Choice with Limited Data. Read More Vivek Farias and Tavneet Suri have each received funding from the Solomon Buchsbaum Research Fund Vivek Farias and Tavneet Suri have each received approval from the MIT Research Support Committee for $50,000 of funding from the Solomon Buchsbaum Research Fund. This fund's purpose is "to launch new research initiatives that cut across disciplinary lines" in "support of innovative ideas advanced primarily by young faculty." Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Learning Preferences with Side Information." Farias, Vivek, and Andrew A. Li. Management Science Vol. 65, No. 7 (2019): 3131-3149. Featured Publication "A Nonparametric Approach to Modeling Choice with Limited Data." Farias, Vivek F., Srikanth Jagabathula and Devavrat Shah. Management Science Vol. 59, No. 2 (2013): 305-322. "Near-Optimal A-B Testing." Bhat, Nikhil, Vivek F. Farias, Ciamac C. Moallemi, and Deeksha Sinha. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Rapid, Deep and Precise Profiling of the Plasma Proteome with Multi-nanoparticle Protein Corona." Blume, John E., William C. Manning, Vivek F. Farias, et al. Nature Communications Vol. 11, (2020): 3662. "Assortment Optimization under Consider-then-Choose Choice Models." Aouad, Ali, Vivek F. Farias, and Retsef Levi. Management Science (2020). SSRN. "On the Efficacy of Static Prices for Revenue Management in the Face of Strategic Customers." Chen, Yeiwei, Vivek F. Farias, and Nikolaos Trichakis. Management Science Vol. 65, No. 12 (2019): 5535-5555. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A COVID-19 playbook for nursing homes Download the MIT COVID-19 Policy Alliances new report for nursing facility leaders and policymakers. Nov 2, 2020 Read Article MIT Sloan Experts A transformative approach to disease detection Imagine diagnosing a disease before symptoms begin. Or diagnosing cancer without a biopsy. The proteins in our blood could be the key to making these things possible. Sep 8, 2020 Read More Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
