Rama Ramakrishnan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Rama Ramakrishnan twitter linkedin Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-580 ramar@mit.edu (617) 253-0288 http://www.ramakrishnan.com Title Professor of the Practice, Data Science and Applied Machine Learning 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Rama Ramakrishnan is Professor of the Practice at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His research and teaching interests center on the application of data science and machine learning techniques to problems in industry and in the creation of products and services made intelligent by the algorithmic use of data.Prior to joining MIT Sloan, Rama was a data science entrepreneur and tech executive for over 20 years. He has founded or been a senior executive in four software companies that have exited to technology titans Oracle, Salesforce, and Demandware. He is active in the startup ecosystem as an advisor, angel investor, and board member.Most recently, Rama was senior vice president at Salesforce (NYSE: CRM) and chief data scientist for Salesforce Commerce Cloud. In this role, he led Salesforce Einstein for Commercethe analytics/machine-learning platform that powers Salesforce Commerce Cloudand was responsible for product management, engineering, data science, and cloud production operations. The Einstein platform uses analytics techniques to predict and influence the shopping behavior of hundreds of millions of unique shoppers monthly.The path that led Rama to Salesforce started in July 2010 when he founded a startup, CQuotient, to build a data-science-based personalization platform for retail and e-commerce. Backed by funding from Bain Capital Ventures, Rama built and grew the company to a successful exit to Demandware (NYSE: DWRE) in October 2014. As a member of the Demandware executive team, Rama was involved in the successful sale of Demandware to Salesforce in July 2016 for $2.8 billion. CQuotient technology now forms the core of the Salesforce Einstein for Commerce platform.Prior to founding CQuotient, Rama taught analytics at MIT Sloan, was chief scientist and VP of R&D at ProfitLogic, was chief analytics officer and VP of R&D for the retail business of Oracle, founded two analytics companies, and was a consultant at McKinsey & Company.Rama has a BTech degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai and MS and PhD degrees from MIT.Recent WritingLessons from a Deep Learning Master, July 17, 2020.Data Scientists, Ask Yourself Often: So What?, June 8, 2020.Create a Common-Sense Baseline First, January 12, 2018.... moreRecent Speaking"Confessions of a Data Science Entrepreneur and Educator", Distinguished Speakers' Series, EMC/Dell Corporation, August 12, 2020."Underscore VC Panel: AI/ML Innovation in a Post-Pandemic World", underscore.vc, June 23, 2020. Media Highlights Source: INDIA New England News Entrepreneur and tech executive Rama Ramakrishnan appointed full Profess... Oct 16, 2019 Faculty: Rama Ramakrishnan The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
