Michelle Hanlon | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Michelle Hanlon curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-668 mhanlon@mit.edu (617) 253-9849 (617) 253-0603 Title Howard W. Johnson Professor Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Michelle Hanlon is the Howard W. Johnson Professor and a Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of ManagementHanlon teaches a course on taxes and business strategyand she also oftenteachesan introductoryfinancial accounting course. Her research focuses primarily on the intersection of taxation and financial accounting.Hanlons recent work examines the capital market and reputational effects of corporate tax avoidance, the economic consequences of U.S. international tax policies for multinational corporations, the effect of individual level taxes on corporate payout policy,and the extent of individual-level offshore tax evasion. She is an editor at one of the leading accounting research journals. She has won several awards for her research and is the winner of the 2013 Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching at Sloan.She has co-authored two textbooks: Financial Accounting (Cambridge Business Publishers) and Taxes and Business Strategy (Pearson Education, Inc.).Hanlonhastestified in front of the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance and the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means regarding U.S. tax policy. She recently worked as an Academic Fellowfor the U.S. House Ways and Means (majority) tax staff.Professor Hanlonholds a BBA from Eastern Illinois University, an MAcc in taxation from the University of Missouri-St. Louis, and a PhD in accounting from the University of Washington. Honors American Accounting Association designates Hanlon as Presidential Scholar Michelle Hanlon was designated as a 2020 Presidential Scholar by the president of the American Accounting Association (AAA). Hanlon delivered a commissioned Presidential Research Lecture as a plenary speaker at the 2020 Virtual Annual Meeting of the AAA in August. The Accounting Review will publish her talk, which was entitled "The Possible Weakening of Financial Accounting from Tax Reforms, as part of the Presidential Research Lecture series, by request of the AAA Board of Directors. Read More Hanlon wins accounting honor Michelle Hanlon has won the 2020 Distinguished Contributions to Accounting Literature Award from the American Accounting Association. This annual reward recognizes uniqueness and magnitude of contribution to accounting education, practice and/or future accounting research from among works published 5-15 years prior. Hanlons winning paper, co-authored with Scott D. Dyreng (Duke Fuqua)and Edward L. Maydew (UNC Kenan-Flagler), is entitled Long-Run Corporate Tax Avoidance (The Accounting Review, Vol. 83, No. 1, Jan. 2008). Read More Hanlon wins teaching award Michelle Hanlon has won a 2020 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for her work teaching on campus and/or remotely. Hanlon won the award along with fellow Sloan faculty members Kara Blackburn, Vivek Farias, Alexandre Jacquillat, Miro Kazakoff, Ben Shields, and Rodrigo Verdi. These student-nominated awards recognize faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.This recognition also gives the MIT community the opportunity to learn from their innovative practices. The awards were co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.This year, students submitted a total of 487 nominations for 232 faculty and instructors, and 30 winners were selected by Dean of Digital Learning Krishna Rajagopal and Vice Chancellor Ian Waitz, with help from MIT Open Learning staff. Read More Hanlon and Shroff win American Tax Association award Michelle Hanlon and Nemit Shroff have received the 2017 American Tax Association (ATA) Outstanding Manuscript Award. This annual award recognizes a significant contribution to the tax literature published during the three prior calendar years. The winning paper, co-authored with John R. Graham (Duke University Fuqua School of Business professor) and Terry Shevlin (University of California, Irvine Paul Merage School of Business professor), is entitled Incentives for Tax Planning and Avoidance: Evidence from the Field. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Tax Reform Made Me Do It." Hanlon, Michelle, Jeffrey L. Hoopes, and Joel Slemrod. In Tax Policy and the Economy, edited by Robert A. Moffitt, Chicago, IL: National Bureau of Economic Research, 2019. "When Does Tax Avoidance Result in Tax Uncertainty?" Dyreng, Scott, Michelle Hanlon,and Edward L. Maydew. The Accounting Review Vol. 94, No. 2 (2019): 179-203. SSRN Preprint. "Tax Reform Made Me Do It!" Hanlon, Michelle, Jeffrey L. Hoopes, and Joel Slemrod. Tax Policy and the Economy Vol. 33, (2019): 33-80. "Country-by-Country Reporting and the International Allocation of Taxing Rights." Hanlon, Michelle. Bulletin for International Taxation Vol. 72, No. 4/5 (2018). Download paper. "The Equipment Manufacturing Industrys Perspective on Tax Reform." Brannon, Ike, and Michelle Hanlon. Tax Notes Vol. 87, No. 39 (2017): 1-2. "Tax Rates and Corporate Decision Making." Graham, John, Michelle Hanlon, and Terry Shevlin. Review of Financial Studies Vol. 30, No. 9 (2017): 3128-3175. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Tips for digital teaching from prizewinning professors Distance learning is now standard, whether hybrid or fully online. Heres how to excel at remote teaching, according to five MIT Sloan faculty members. Aug 25, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan experts map economy in year one of Trump presidency Major changes to business in 2017, and what to expect as Trump administration heads into its second year. Feb 1, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Marketplace (Audio) Kraft Heinz loses millions in "goodwill." What does that mean? Aug 8, 2019 Faculty: Michelle Hanlon Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) Warren's corporate tax 'solution' is fundamentally flawed Apr 19, 2019 Faculty: Michelle Hanlon The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
