Y. Karen Zheng | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Y. Karen Zheng linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-578 yanchong@mit.edu (617) 253-4512 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/yanchong/ Title Sloan School Career Development Professor Associate Professor, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Food Supply Chain Analytics and Sensing Initiative Yanchong (Karen) Zheng is aSloan School Career Development Professorandan Associate Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her research studies fundamental and emerging operations management (OM) problems with a behavior-centric, data-driven, field-based approach. This approach brings a strong focus on the behavioral, process, and supply chain design aspects that are key to enabling empirically-grounded and practically-implementable solutions. Her research addresses four general topics: (I) the design and impact of online platforms to enable efficient physical supply chains in resource constrained environments, (II) the role of information transparency in driving positive behaviors, especially for environmental and social responsibility, (III) the impact of a supply chains structural properties on the behaviors of various stakeholders, and (IV) the impact of consumer behaviors on retail operations. In addressing these questions, Zheng's research spans various application domains including food and agricultural supply chains, environmentally and socially responsible operations, supply chain information sharing, and pricing and revenue management.Zheng collaborates with both public and private partners on the ground to ensure that her research leads to positive impacts to society and practice. For example, through a collaboration with the state government of Karnataka, India, her research team have designed and implemented a new two-stage auction on its state-wide online agricultural platform for a major market of lentils. The implementation has led to significant profit gains for over 10,000 farmers traded in the market during the treatment period. In another project, her team is working with an agri-tech company to design data-driven market intelligence tools to benefit over 26,000 fresh produce farmers in Bihar, India. Recently, she has started collaboration with Fair Trade USA to utilize information transparency to promote the adoption of fair-trade products on both the consumer and the producer sides.Zheng holds undergraduate and masters degrees from Tsinghua University in China and aPhDfrom Stanford University. Honors Karen Zheng honored for working paper Karen Zheng has won Second Prize in the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences Behavioral Operations Management Section Best Working Paper Competition. Zheng was honored for her working paper, Transparency and Indirect Reciprocity in Social Responsibility: An Incentivized Experiment, co-authored with Tim Kraft (of the University of Virginias Darden School of Business) and her PhD student Leon Valdes (of MIT Sloan). Read More Karen Zheng wins NSF award Yanchong (Karen) Zheng has received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for her project entitled A Closed-Loop Methodology for Investigating Trust, Culture, and Information Sharing in Global Supply Chains. CAREER Awards are the NSFs most prestigious awards in support of junior faculty who exemplify the role of teacher-scholars through outstanding research, excellent education and the integration of education and research within the context of the mission of their organizations. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "The Impact of Unifying Agricultural Wholesale Markets on Prices and Farmers Profitability." Levi, Retsef, Manoj Rajan, Somya Singhvi, and Y. Karen Zheng. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 117, No. 6 (2020): 2366-2371. "Motivating Supplier Social Responsibility under Incomplete Visibility." Kraft, Tim, Len Valds, and Y. Karen Zheng. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. "Network Trust and Trust Behaviors among Executives in Supply Chain Interactions." Choi, Emily, zalp zer, and Y. Karen Zheng. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Behavioral Operations: Past, Present, and Future." Donohue, Karen Lisa, zalp zer, and Y. Karen Zheng. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management 20th Anniversary Special Issue Vol. 22, No. 1 (2020): 191-202. "Economically Motivated Adulteration in Farming Supply Chains." Levi, Retsef, Somya Singhvi, and Y. Karen Zheng. Management Science Vol. 66, No. 1 (2020): 209-226. "Artificial Shortage in Agricultural Supply Chains." Levi, Retsef, Somya Singhvi, and Y. Karen Zheng, Working Paper. 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Supply chain transparency, explained What is transparency, how does it differ from visibility, whos demanding it, and how can it boost ESG ratings and consumer trust. Feb 20, 2020 Read Article Press New auction design for digital agricultural platforms Prof. Yanchong (Karen) Zheng says: We found that the underlying operational and supply chain design of the platform plays a significant role in whether farmers benefit from the initiative." Jan 24, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: NextBillion (Opinion Piece) Optimizing online auctions: How technology can help to alleviate poverty... Mar 3, 2020 Faculty: Y. Karen Zheng Source: Supply Chain Quarterly Study: Investing in supply chain visibility builds trust Jul 27, 2019 Faculty: Y. Karen Zheng Source: SupplyChainBrain (Podcast) Will consumers pay for responsible supply chains? Feb 22, 2019 Faculty: Y. Karen Zheng Source: Next Billion (Opinion Piece) After Rana Plazado consumers care about supply chain transparency? Our... Feb 5, 2019 Faculty: Y. Karen Zheng Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
