About Us | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty About Us About Us Faculty Directory Academic Groups Centers & Initiatives Faculty MIT Sloans faculty members are leading economists, public policy experts, entrepreneurs, and executives of companies large and small. Their research is conducted alongside private sector leaders and practitioners with the support and partnership of MIT Sloan students.And their accomplishments are significant. Tavneet Suri leads trailblazing research into economic activity in the poorest parts of Africa. John Sterman developed a climate simulator used by policymakers to examine the impact of greenhouse gas emissions. Andrew Lo is applying structured finance techniques to funding for cancer. That covers three. There are more than 200 others, each conducting fascinating and vital work. Faculty Openings Faculty Openings Join a culture of collaboration and a cadre of leading management experts and researchers. See open positions LearningEdge LearningEdge A Free Learning Resource for Management Educators and Students Award-winning case studies and management simulators from MIT Sloan faculty and students are available for download and distribution, free of charge. Topics include system dynamics, operations management, strategy, sustainability, and entrepreneurship, among others. Learn more Research and commentary from MIT Sloan business and management experts. Read more The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
