Drazen Prelec | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Drazen Prelec curriculum vitae Support Staff Aileen Menounos (617) 253-4936 aileenrm@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-540 dprelec@mit.edu (617) 253-2833 (617) 258-7597 http://nel.mit.edu/ Title Digital Equipment Corp. Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management Professor of Management Science and Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Virtual Customer Initiative MIT Sloan Neuroeconomics Lab Behavioral Research Lab Drazen Prelec is the Digital Equipment Corp. Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management and a Professor of Management Science and Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Prelec holds appointments in the Department of Economics and in the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences. His research deals with the psychology and neuroscience of decision-making, including behavioral economics and neuroeconomics, risky choice, time discounting, self-control, and consumer behavior. He works on both the development of normative decision theory and the exploration of the empirical failures of that theory, using behavioral and fMRI methods. A current project on self-signaling tries to understand the strange power of non-causal motivationwhen individuals favor actions that are diagnostic of good outcomes, even though these actions have little or no causal force. Diagnostic motivation is real, and is probably essential for human self-control. Its cognitive and neural mechanisms are not well understood, however. A second Bayesian truth serum project deals with scoring systems for evaluating individual and collective judgment in knowledge domains where no external truth criterion is available. Examples would be long-range forecasts, political or historical inferences, and artistic or legal interpretations. Prelece is developing scoring systems that reward honest judgments and that can identify truth even when majority opinion is wrong. He was a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, and has received a number of distinguished research awards, including the John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship. Prelec holds an AB in applied mathematics from Harvard College and a PhD in experimental psychology from Harvard University. Publications SSRN "Incentive Compatible Surveys via Posterior Probabilities." Cvitani, Jaka, Draen Prelec, Sonja Radas, and Hrvoje iki. SIAM Theory of Probability and Its Applications. Forthcoming. "Whose data can we trust: How meta-predictions can be used to uncover credible respondents in survey." Radas, Sonja, and Draen Prelec. PLOSOne Vol. 14, No. 12 (2019): e0225432. "Honesty via Choice-Matching." Cvitani, Jaka, Draen Prelec, Blake Riley, and Benjamin Tereick. American Economic Review: Insights Vol. 1, No. 2 (2019): 179-192. "Game of Duels: Information-Theoretic Axiomatization of Scoring Rules." Jaka Cvitani, Prelec Draen, Sonja Radas, and Hrvoje iki. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory Vol. 65, No. 1 (2019): 530-537. "A Simple Plug-in Bagging Ensemble Based on Threshold-moving for Classifying Binary and Multiclass Imbalanced Data." Collell, Guillem, Draen Prelec, and Kaustubh R.Patil. Neurocomputing Vol. 275, No. 31 (2018): 330-340. "A Solution to the Single-question Crowd Wisdom Problem." Prelec, Draen, H. Sebastian Seung & John McCoy. Nature Vol. 541, No. 7638 (2017): 532-535. Load More Media Highlights Source: The New York Times The good, the bad and the 'radically dishonest' Sep 15, 2020 In new research, cheating in private was one thing; but, for the cheating nonliars, lying about it entailed another, slightly higher threshold. Faculty: Drazen Prelec The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
