Rahul Mazumder | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Rahul Mazumder Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-583 rahulmaz@mit.edu (617) 253-2652 http://www.mit.edu/~rahulmaz/ Title Robert G. James Career Development Professor Associate Professor, Operations Research and Statistics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Rahul Mazumder is theRobert G. James Career Development Professor and Associate Professor of Operations Research and Statistics at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Prior to joining MIT, he was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Statistics, Columbia University from Fall 2013 through June 2015, and was also affiliated with the Data Science Institute, Columbia University. Prior to that, Rahul was a PostDoctoral Associate at MIT from 2012 - 2013. His research interests are in data science, statistical machine learning, large scale optimization, mathematical programming; and in particular, their interplay. He is also interested in "big data" applications in environmental and climate studies, social science, and recommender systems. He has published in a variety of journals: Journal of Machine Learning Research, Annals of Statistics, Journal of the American Statistical Association,and Annals of Applied Statistics, among others. Rahulcompleted his BS and MS in statistics from the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata in 2007. He received his PhD in statistics from Stanford University in 2012. Honors Mazumder wins INFORMS prize Rahul Mazumder has won the 2020 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Optimization Society Prize for Young Researchers. His winning paper, Fast Best Subset Selection: Coordinate Descent and Local Combinatorial Optimization Algorithms (Operations Research 68(5):1517-1537, September-October 2020), was co-authored with his MIT ORC (Operations Research Center) PhD student Hussein Hazimeh. The citation notes:The paper presents a novel algorithm for the Best Subset Selection problem (BSS)a fundamental problem in high-dimensional statistics, where sparse solutions with good explanatory power are crucial for practical use. Yet, it is NP-hard andlabeled computationally intractableThe authors combine tools and techniques from high-dimensional statistics, continuous optimization, integer programming, and open-source software development to provide the community with a highly effective heuristic for BSS, one which has strong theoretical underpinnings, outperforms existing state-of-the-art codes in many cases, and is easy to generalize to other settings. Read More Mazumders research honored by Office of Naval Research Rahul Mazumder is the recipient of a 2018 Young Investigator Program (YIP) Award from the Office of Naval Research (ONR). Known as one of the oldest and most selective U.S. science and technology basic research programs, the ONR YIP funds early-career academic researchers (investigators) whose scientific pursuits show outstanding promise for supporting the Department of Defense, while also promoting their professional development. The awards were announced last week. Mazumder is one of five MIT awardees among the 31 scientists chosen from a broad spectrum of technical fields, whose research was deemed to hold strong promise across a wide range of naval-relevant science and technology areas, based on past performance, technical merit, potential for scientific breakthrough and long-term university commitment. Mazumders three-year project, entitled Combinatorial Statistical Inference with Mathematical Optimization, will create new methodology to address key inferential problems central to modern applied statistics and data science, using techniques in mathematical optimization. This new methodology could then be applied to a wide range of problems in support of the U.S. Navy and Department of Defense. Read More Publications Google Scholar "A Computational Framework for Multivariate Convex Regression and its Variants." Mazumder, Rahul, Arkopal Choudhury, Garud Iyengar, and Bodhisattva Sen. Journal of the American Statistical Association. Forthcoming. "Computation of the Maximum Likelihood Estimator in Low-rank Factor Analysis." Khamaru, Koulik, and Rahul Mazumder. Mathematical Programming. Forthcoming. arXiv Preprint. "Learning a Mixture of Gaussians via Mixed Integer Optimization." Bandi, Hari, Dimitris Bertsimas, and Rahul Mazumder. INFORMS Journal on Optimization. Forthcoming. "Fast Best Subset Selection: Coordinate Descent and Local Combinatorial Optimization Algorithms." Hazimeh, Hussein and Rahul Mazumder. Operations Research Vol. 68, No. 5 (2020): 1517-1537. "Hierarchical Modeling and Shrinkage for User Session Length Prediction in Media Streaming." Antoine Dedieu, Rahul Mazumder, Zhen Zhu, and Hossein Vahabi. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Information and Knowledge (CKIM 2018), Turin, Italy: October 2018. "Flexible Low-rank Statistical Modeling with Missing Data and Side Information." Fithian, William, and Rahul Mazumder. Statistical Science Vol. 33, No. 2 (2018): 238-260. arXiv Preprint. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter What to know about MIT Sloans new faculty members Six new professors explore the science behind Facebook, how consumers search for product information, and more Sep 3, 2015 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
