Dimitris Bertsimas | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Dimitris Bertsimas curriculum vitae Support Staff Shalane Hutchins (617) 717-4915 shalane@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-560 dbertsim@mit.edu (617) 253-4223 (617) 258-9214 http://www.mit.edu/~dbertsim/ Title Boeing Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management Professor, Operations Research Associate Dean for Business Analytics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Dimitris Bertsimas is theBoeing Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management, a Professor of Operations Research, and the Associate Dean for the Master of Business Analytics at MIT.A faculty member since 1988, his research interests include optimization, stochastic systems, machine learning, and their application. In recent years, he has worked in robust optimization, statistics, healthcare, transportation and finance. Bertsimas was a cofounder of Dynamic Ideas, LLC, which developed portfolio management tools for asset management. In 2002, the assets of Dynamic Ideas were sold to American Express. He is also the founder of Dynamic Ideas Press, a publisher of scientific books, the cofounder of Benefits Science, a company that designs health care plans for companies, of Dynamic Ideas Financial, a company that provides financial advice to customers, of Alpha Dynamics, an asset management company, P2 Analytics, an analytics consulting company and of MyA health, a personalized health care advice company.Bertsimas has coauthored more than 200 scientific papers and the following books:Introduction to Linear Optimization(with J. Tsitsiklis, Athena Scientific and Dynamic Ideas, 2008);Data, Models, and Decisions(with R. Freund, Dynamic Ideas, 2004); Optimization over Integers(with R. Weismantel, Dynamic Ideas, 2005); and The Analytics Edge (with A. O'Hair andW. Pulleyblank, Dynamic Ideas, 2016). He is former department editor ofOptimization for Management Scienceand ofOperations Research in Financial Engineering. Bertsimas has supervised 59 doctoral and 31 Master students. He is currently supervising 22 doctorla students. A member of the National Academy of Engineering and an INFORMS fellow, he has received numerous research awards, including the Harold Larnder Prize (2016), the Philip Morse Lecturship prize (2013), the William Pierskalla best paper award in health care (2013), best paper award in Trapsoration (2013), the Farkas Prize (2008), the Erlang Prize (1996), the SIAM Prize in Optimization (1996), the Bodossaki Prize (1998), and the Presidential Young Investigator Award (19911996). He has also received recognition for his educational contributions: The Jamieson prize (2013) and the Samuel M. Seegal prize (1999).Bertsimas holds a BS in electrical engineering and computer science from the National Technical University of Athens, Greece, as well as an MS in operations research and a PhD in applied mathematics and operations research from MIT. Honors Bertsimas and Jacquillat win Pierskalla Best Paper Award Dimitris Bertsimas and Alex Jacquillat have won the 2020 Pierskalla Best Paper Award from the Health Applications Society of INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences).This award recognizes research excellence in the field of health care management science. Their winning paper, From predictions to prescriptions: A data-driven response to COVID-19, was co-authored with Lonard Boussioux, Ryan Cory-Wright, Arthur Delarue, Vassilis Digalakis Jr., Driss Lahlou Kitane, Michael Li, Agni Orfanoudaki, Theodore Papalexopoulos, Ivan Paskov, Kimberly Villalobos Carballo, Holly Wiberg, and Cynthia Zeng (all MIT Operations Research Center PhD students advised by Bertsimas); Omar Skali Lami (ORC PhD student advised by Bertsimas and Georgia Perakis); Galit Lukin (Datadog, ORC SM 20, advised by Bertsimas); Jean Pauphilet (London Business School, ORC PhD 20, advised by Bertsimas); Luca Mingardi (Interpretable AI, MIT Sloan MBAn 20, advised by Bertsimas); Hamza Tazi Bouardi (BCG GAMMA, MIT Sloan MBAn 20, advised by Bertsimas); and two of Bertsimass former postdocs, Omid Nohadani (Northwestern) and Bartolomeo Stellato (Princeton). Read More INFORMS honors Bertsimas twice Dimitris Bertsimas has won two major awards from INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences). First, Bertsimas won the 2019 John von Neumann Theory Prize for his having made fundamental, sustained contributions to theory in operations research and the management sciences.The awards criteria are broad and include significance, innovation, depth, and scientific excellence. The prize recognizes his body of works contributions that have stood the test of time. Bertsimas also won the 2019 INFORMS Presidents Award, recognizing important contributions to the welfare of society. Read More Dimitris Bertsimass class is honored Dimitris Bertsimass teaching has been included in the "Class Central's Top 50 MOOCS of All Time (2017 edition) list, based on thousands of reviews by Class Central users. MOOCs are Massive Open Online Courses, free to anyone with an internet connection. Class Central reports there are now over 8,000 MOOCs offered by around 750 universities worldwide. Bertsimass course 15.071x The Analytics Edge, delivered via edX, was one of four MIT courses in the Top 50 MOOCS of All Time list. The award was announced last month in a Class Central blog post. Read More Dimitris Bertsimas named Distinguished Lecturer Dimitris Bertsimas has been named the 2016 IFORS Distinguished Lecturer by the International Federation of Operational Research Societies. He delivered this lecture at the 28th European Conference on Operational Research, at the Poznan University of Technology in Poland, on July 4, 2016. Read More Dimitris Bertsimas receives 2016 Harold Larnder Prize Dimitris Bertsimas has received the 2016 Harold Larnder Prize, an annual award recognizing an individual who has achieved international distinction in operational research, from the Canadian Operational Research Society (CORS). He delivered the Harold Larnder Memorial Lecture at the 58th Annual CORS Conference, at the Banff Centre in Canada, on May 30, 2016. Read More Bertsimas wins Jamieson Prize Dimitris Bertsimas and Otto Scharmer were each awarded the 2015Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Dimitris Bertsimas was awarded the 2008 Farkas Prize of the INFORMS Optimization Society Dimitris Bertsimas was awarded the 2008 Farkas Prize of the INFORMS Optimization Society, for his research work on robust optimization and its applications. The Farkas Prize is awarded bi-annually by INFORMS for the most significant contribution to the field of optimization by a researcher. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "A Practically Efficient Algorithm for Adaptive Distributionally Robust Linear Optimization Problems." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Melvyn Sim, and Meilin Zhang. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Balancing Efficiency and Fairness in Liver Transplant Access: Tradeoff Curves for the Assessment of Organ Distribution Policies." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Theodore Papalexopoulos, Nikolaos Trichakis, Yuchen Wang, Ryutaro Hirose, Parsia Vagefi. Transplantation. Forthcoming. github Supplement. "Certifiably Optimal Sparse Inverse Covariance Estimation." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Jourdain Lamperski, and Jean Pauphilet. Mathematical Programming. Forthcoming. "Data-driven Assortment Optimization." Dimitris Bertsimas, and Velibor V. Mii. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Relative Robust and Adaptive Optimization." Bertsimas, Dimitris, and Iain Dunning. INFORMS Journal of Computing. Forthcoming. "Sparse Regression: Scalable Algorithms and Empirical Performance." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Jean Pauphilet, and Bart Van Parys. Statistical Science. Forthcoming. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Press Models track COVID-19 spread in communities, predict patient outcomes Prof. Dimitris Bertsimas and nearly two dozen doctoral students are using machine learning and optimization to find answers and generating accurate real-time insight into the pandemic. Apr 15, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: U.S. News & World Report | Education What is business analytics? Nov 10, 2020 Why is data such an integral part of how businesses operate? Because numbers don't lie, says Dimitris Bertsimas. Faculty: Dimitris Bertsimas Source: WTNH-TV (Video) Protests could cause spike in COVID cases, Hartford HealthCare says Jun 5, 2020 If you have 10,000 people protesting together, ...the three people infected might become a thousand people infected, [said Prof.] Bertsimas Faculty: Dimitris Bertsimas Source: The Hartford Courant Connecticut's reopening is unlikely to cause a large resurgence in COVID... May 29, 2020 Dimitris Bertsimas said Connecticut's reopening has so far been handled reasonably appropriately." Faculty: Dimitris Bertsimas Source: The New York Times What 5 coronavirus models say the next month will look like Apr 22, 2020 We are reasonably certain until approximately June 15 there will be significant measures...After that, God knows. Faculty: Dimitris Bertsimas Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
