Peter M. Senge | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Peter M. Senge Get in Touch Building E62-419 psenge@mit.edu (617) 253-1575 (617) 253-2660 http://www.solonline.org Title Senior Lecturer, Leadership and Sustainability 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies System Dynamics Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Peter M. Senge is the founding chair of SoL (Society of Organizational Learning), a global network of organizations, researchers, and consultants dedicated to the interdependent development of people and their institutions, Senior Lecturer, Sloan School of Management MIT, and cofounder of the Academy for Systemic Change, which seeks to accelerate the growth of the field of systemic change worldwide. His work centers on promoting shared understanding of complex issues and shared leadership for healthier human systems. This involves major cross-sector projects focused on global food systems, climate change, regenerative economies, and the future of education.Peter is the author of The Fifth Discipline and coauthor of the three related fieldbooks: Presence, and The Necessary Revolution. The Fifth Discipline (over two million copies sold), was recognized by Harvard Business Review as one of the seminal management books of the last 75 years, and by the Financial Times as one of five most important management books. The Journal of Business Strategy named him one of the 24 people who had the greatest influence on business strategy in the 20th century. Recently, he was named to the 1000 Talents Program (Renzai) in China to help China become a leader in systemic change, to benefit itself and the world.Peter has been at the forefront of organizational learning since publishing his classic text, The Fifth Discipline, in 1990. The Fifth Discipline provides the theories and methods to foster aspiration, develop reflective conversation, and understand complexity in order to build a learning organization. Peter is driven by the desire to understand how we can work together to live in harmony with one another and with Mother Earth. He continues to push the boundaries of our understanding of organizational learning, teaching his principles in workshops and seminars across the country. Peter describes his process as sharing rather than teaching, in an attempt to help people see not just what has been done before, but sharing what has been done, by suggestion, surfacing, or eliciting what new might be possible.Throughout his career, Peter has been asking, How do we create the best conditions, including the tools and methods, for enabling learning communities? Since the publication of The Fifth Discipline, Peter has shared the driving principles of organizational learning with business, education, health care, and government. Through his work, Peter strives to foster learning communities around the globe in order to improve our world.Peter graduated from Stanford University with a BS in engineering. He holds an MS in social systems modeling and a PhD in management from the MIT Sloan School of Management. Publications SSRN "The Dawn of System Leadership." Senge, Peter, Hal Hamilton, and John Kania. Stanford Social Innovation Review, January 2015. "30 Years of Building Learning Communities:A Dialogue with Peter Senge, Otto Scharmer, and Darcy Winslow - Part I." Senge, Peter, Otto Scharmer and Darcy Winslow. Reflections: The SoL Journal on Knowledge, Learning, and Change Vol. 12, No. 4 (2013): 40-52. "30 Years of Building Learning Communities:A Dialogue with Peter Senge, Otto Scharmer, and Darcy Winslow - Part II." Senge, Peter, Otto Scharmer and Darcy Winslow. Reflections: The SoL Journal on Knowledge, Learning, and Change Vol. 13, No. 1 (2013): 1-9. "Relational Space: The Heart of Sustainability Collaborations." Bradbury-Huang, Hillary, Benyamin Lichtenstein, John S. Carroll and Peter M. Senge. In Research in Organizational Change and Development, 109-148. Bingley, UK: Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2010. "Leadership Capabilities: Exercise Them to Develop a Signature Style." Ancona, Deborah L., Thomas W. Malone, Wanda J. Orlikowski and Peter M. Senge. Leadership Excellence, February 2010. The Necessary Revolution: How Individuals and Organizations are Working Together to Create a Sustainable World. Senge, Peter M., Bryan Smith, Nina Kruschwitz, Joe Laur, and Sara Schley. New York, NY: Random House, 2010. Load More Media Highlights Source: The Globe and Mail Astronaut pushes the envelope in taking an MBA Apr 11, 2019 Faculty: Peter M. Senge The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
