Hal Gregersen | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Hal Gregersen curriculum vitae Support Staff Erika Paoletti (617) 253-2650 epaolett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-380 HBG@MIT.EDU (617) 324-4951 http://halgregersen.com/ Title Senior Lecturer, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Hal Gregersen is Executive Director of the MIT Leadership Center and a SeniorLecturerin Leadership and Innovation at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he pursues his vocation of executive teaching, coaching, and research by exploring how leaders in business, government, and society discover provocative new ideas, develop the human and organizational capacity to realize those ideas, and ultimately deliver positive, powerful results.He is a Senior Fellow at Innosight and a former advisory board member at Pharmascience, a privately held pharmaceutical company based in Montreal, Canada. Before joining MIT, he taught at INSEAD, London Business School, Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College, Brigham Young University, and in Finland as a Fulbright Fellow.Gregersen's most recent book, The Innovators DNA: Mastering the Five Skills of Disruptive Innovators, flows from a path-breaking international research project (with Jeff Dyer & Clayton Christensen). They explored where disruptive innovations come from by interviewing founder entrepreneurs and CEOs at 100+ of the most innovative companies in the world and by assessing how 8,000+ leaders leverage five key innovation skills to create valuable new products, services, processes, and businesses.To grasp how leaders find and ask the right questions ones that disrupt the world Gregersen is now studying 100+ renowned business and government leaders. This question-centric project, conducted in collaboration with Clayton Christensen, is surfacing insights into how leaders build better questions to unlock game-changing solutions. Gregersen is also founder of The 4-24 Project, an initiative dedicated to rekindling the provocative power of asking the right questions in adults so they can pass this crucial creativity skill onto the next generation.Gregersen has co-authored ten books and published over 50 articles, book chapters, and cases on leading innovation and change. His research has been highlighted in global media such as BBC, CNN, The Economist, Fast Company, Financial Times, Forbes, Fortune, Inc., The New York Times, and The Wall Street Journal. He has received several awards for his cutting edge work, including: 2013 Thinkers50 Innovation Award Nominee, 2012 Chartered Management British Library Book of the Year Award for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, and the 2009 McKinsey Award runner-up for the best article in Harvard Business Review.Putting his research to practice, Gregersen regularly delivers high impact keynote speeches and executive workshops with companies like Accenture, Adidas, AT&T, Christies, Coca-Cola, Daimler, Danone, Genentech, IBM, Intel, Johnson & Johnson, LG, Lilly, McAfee, Marriott, MasterCard, Sanofi Aventis, SAP, Vivendi, WalMart, World Economic Forum, & Yahoo! He also works with governments, not-for-profit and NGO organizations to generate greater innovation capabilities in the next generation of leaders.Gregersen has lived and worked outside the United States for over a decade in England, Finland, France, and the UAE. He and his wife now reside in Boston where he pursues his lifelong avocation, photography, and she her lifelong love, painting.More information about Gregersen and his work can be found at www.halgregersen.com and www.sternspeakers.com. Publications Google Scholar Questions are the Answer: A Breakthrough Approach to Your Most Vexing Problems at Work and Life. Gregersen, Hal. New York, NY: HarperCollins, 2018. "How The Volvo Ocean Race Team Tackles Extreme Challenges." Gregersen, Hal. Forbes, July 17, 2018. "How to Cultivate Leadership that is Honed to Solve Problems." Ancona, Deborah, and Hal Gregersen. strategy + business, April 2018. "The Power of Leaders Who Focus on Solving Problems." Ancona, Deborah, and Hal Gregersen. Harvard Business Review, April 2018. "Better Brainstorming." Gregersen, Hal. Harvard Business Review, March 2018. "What Kind of Leadership Works Best at Your Company?" Ancona, Deborah, and Hal Gregersen. Harvard Business Review, March 2018. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 2018 books from MIT Sloan faculty From blockchain to collective bargaining, here are the books from MIT Sloan faculty that made their debut in 2018. Dec 18, 2018 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter How these leading CEOs use questions to drive success Being wrong, uncomfortable, and quiet can lead to breakthrough solutions. Nov 8, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: CNBC Evolve CNBC Evolve New York Summit: Transforming companies for the future Jun 20, 2019 Faculty: Hal Gregersen Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) Three ways executives can manage challenging moments in their careers May 17, 2019 Faculty: Hal Gregersen Source: The Wall Street Journal - Journal Reports: Leadership News (Opinion Piece) The secret to asking better questions May 9, 2019 Faculty: Hal Gregersen Source: Forbes (Opinion Piece) Melinda Gates, consummate questioner May 3, 2019 Faculty: Hal Gregersen Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
