Lawrence D.W. Schmidt | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Lawrence D.W. Schmidt curriculum vitae Support Staff Nancy Suyo (617) 715-2845 NSUYO@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-617 ldws@mit.edu (617) 258-8617 Title Victor J. Menezes (1972) Career Development Professor of Finance Assistant Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Lawrence D. W. Schmidt is theVictor J. Menezes (1972) Career Development Professor of Finance. His research is at the intersection of finance and macroeconomics.Schmidt's research combines theory and applied econometric approaches to offer a richer picture of risks faced by financial market participantshouseholds, institutional investors, and financial intermediariesand sheds new light on underlying economic mechanisms linking financial markets with the real economy. His research is particularly interested in understanding factors which are associated with the risk and return to investments in human capital (that is, the present discounted value of labor income), and how frictions that limit risk-sharing in the labor market affect asset prices and macroeconomic dynamics. In addition to studying the risk factors and behavior of households, his work also studied the behavior of institutional investors during financial crises. His research has appeared in the American Economic Review, the Journal of Applied Econometrics, and the Journal of Mathematical Economics, and his research has won multiple awards, including the 2015 AQR Top Finance Graduate Award.Schmidt holds a BA from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and PhD and MA degrees in Economics from the University of California, San Diego. Prior to joining the faculty at MIT Sloan, Schmidt was an Assistant Professor in the Kenneth C. Griffin Department of Economics at the University of Chicago and a senior consultant at Navigant Consulting, Inc.Current Research Focus: Schmidts research seeks to offer a richer picture of risks faced by financial market participants and to shed new light on economic mechanisms linking financial markets with the real economy. Two recent areas of interest are (1) understanding factors associated with the risk and return to investments in human capital, particularly how frictions that limit risk sharing in labor and capital markets affect asset prices and macroeconomic dynamics, and (2) understanding investment behavior of institutional investors in delegated asset management settings. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Climbing and Falling Off the Ladder: Asset Pricing Implications of Labor Market Event Risk." Schmidt, Lawrence D. W., MIT Sloan Working Paper 5500-16. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2016. Featured Publication "Runs on Money Market Mutual Funds." Schmidt, Lawrence D. W., Allan Timmermann, and Russ Wermers. American Economic Review Vol. 106, No. 9 (2016): 2625-2657. Author Disclosures. Appendix. Data Set. "Working Remotely and the Supply-Side Impact of COVID-19." Papanikolaou, Dimitris and Lawrence D.W. Schmidt, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6115-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "Investor Information Acquisition and Money Market Fund Risk Rebalancing during the 20112012 Eurozone Crisis." Gallagher, Emily A. Lawrence D W Schmidt, Allan Timmermann, Russ Wermers. The Review of Financial Studies Vol. 33, No. 4 (2020): 1445-1483. "Real Risk or Paper Risk: Mis-measured Factors, Granular Measurement Errors, and Empirical Asset Pricing Tests." Byun, Sung Je and Lawrence D.W. Schmidt, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5712-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2019. "Selling Fast and Buying Slow: Heuristics and Trading Performance of Institutional Investors." Akepanidtaworn, Klakow, Rick Di Mascio, Alex Imas, and Lawrence D.W. Schmidt, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5713-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, September 2019. Load More Recent Insights Press Devastating economic consequences of businesses without remote work The study offers U.S. policymakers a blueprint for a future round of COVID-19 stimulus. Jun 30, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Telecommuting exposes fault lines in COVID-19 economy New research shows those who cant work from home bear the brunt of the pandemics economic fallout particularly women with children. Jun 25, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Wall Street Journal Federal aid helped wide swath of small businesses, needy or not Jul 7, 2020 "...tying financing to payroll expenses had the [likely unintended] consequences of allocating more federal funds to the least affected sector. Faculty: Lawrence D.W. Schmidt Source: Marketplace | Morning Report Which businesses got PPP loans? Probably those that needed them the leas... Jun 24, 2020 [Prof.] Schmidt found the biggest loans went to the professional and technical services sector lots of remote workers, fewer jobs lost. Faculty: Lawrence D.W. Schmidt Source: Chicago Booth Review Money managers: Good at buying, not so good at selling Apr 18, 2019 Faculty: Lawrence D.W. Schmidt Source: MarketWatch Even the best stock-market investors fail when it's time to sell Feb 19, 2019 Faculty: Lawrence D.W. Schmidt Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
