Eric Arthur von Hippel | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Eric Arthur von Hippel curriculum vitae Support Staff Stephanie Taverna (617) 253-2676 staverna@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-464 evhippel@mit.edu (617) 253-7155 (617) 253-2660 https://evhippel.mit.edu/ Title T. Wilson (1953) Professor in Management Professor of Management of Innovation and Engineering Systems 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Virtual Customer Initiative Eric von Hippel is the T. Wilson (1953) Professor in Management and a Professor of Management of Innovation and Engineering Systems at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His research discovers and explores patterns in the sources of innovation and develops new processes to improve the fuzzy front end of the innovation processthe end where ideas for breakthrough new products and services are developed. In his most recent book, Democratizing Innovation (MIT Press, April 2005), von Hippel shows how communities of users are actually becoming such powerful innovation engines that they are increasingly driving manufacturers out of product development altogethera pattern he documents in fields ranging from open source software to sporting equipment. This discovery has been used for a better understanding of the innovation process and for the development of new innovation processes for industry. He is currently leading a major research project to discover how these user innovation communities work, and how and whether the same principles might extend to many areas of product and service development. In addition, von Hippel is working with governmental and academic colleagues in the Netherlands, Denmark, and the United Kingdom to develop new and modified governmental policies appropriate to the newly emerging innovation paradigm of user-centered innovation. Heholds a BA in economics from Harvard College, an SM in mechanical engineering from MIT, and a PhD in business and engineering from Carnegie-Mellon University. Honors Portuguese government honors von Hippel with National Medal of Science Eric von Hippel has won the National Medal of Science from the Government of Portugal.This medal is the highest distinction the Portuguese Government awards to scientists and is intended to reward national or foreign individuals who, for their high professional and duty-making qualities, have been distinguished by valuable and exceptional contributions to the development of science or scientific culture in Portugal. The four awardees were some of the founding members of the Patient Innovation Advisory Board.von Hippels award citation notes: He is best known for developing the concept of user innovation, that end-users are responsible for a large amount of innovation, which motivated the work developed at Patient Innovation. This medal recognizes his continuous support to the Patient Innovation project from the very beginning. The Portuguese Government announced the winners November 3, 2020 in a ceremony in Lisbon, and this recently von Hippel gave a talk online at CINCIA 2020 (National Science Summit 2020). (An introduction of von Hippel begins at 7:38:58, and his talk (about 24.5 minutes) begins at 7:45:38.) Read More Eric von Hippel wins Innovation Luminary Award, Excellence in Innovation Research Award Eric von Hippel was awarded the Innovation Luminary Award from the European Commission for his excellent and groundbreaking work inDemocratizing Innovation. Earlier winners include Stephen Hawking, Richard Branson, and Bill Drayton. von Hippel also received the 2015 Innovative Management Partner (IMP) Excellence in Innovation Research Award from the University of Innsbruck School of Management, in recognition of his outstanding contributions to research in strategy and innovation. Read More Eric von Hippel honored Eric von Hippel is the recipient of a Humboldt Research Award from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. This career-achievement award is granted "to academics whose fundamental discoveries, new theories, or insights have had a significant impact on their own discipline and who are expected to continue producing cutting-edge achievements in the future." The award honors von Hippels groundbreaking research on user innovations and his work fostering international exchange and scientific discussions around user innovation and open source innovation, including initiating the Open and UserInnovation Conference, which is now an internationally acclaimed forum. (For more information on the award and the research program, see: http://www.ip.mpg.de/en/pub/mcier/news/humboldt_award.cfm Von Hippel was also awarded an honorary doctorate of economics and social science by the Technical University of Hamburg-Harburg, a major German technical university, "for his path-breaking contributions in the research area of user innovation and for his tireless efforts to support young researchers in their academic career paths." This is his third honorary doctorate. Read More von Hippel recognized by the International Association of Management of Technology International Association of Management of Technology (IAMOT) has recognized Ed Roberts, David Sarnoff Professor of the Management of Technology, and Eric von Hippel, Professor of Management of Innovation, as two of the top 50 authors of technology and innovation management over the last 5 years. This exceptional achievement places Robertsand von Hippelwithin the top 1% of all researchers in the field. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication Free Innovation. von Hippel, Eric. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2016. PDF. "Household Innovation and R&D: Bigger than You Think." Sichel, Dan, and Eric von Hippel. Review of Income and Wealth. Forthcoming. "Identifying Early-Stage Need-Solution Pairs on the Web." von Hippel, Eric, and Sandro Kaulartz. Research Policy. Forthcoming. "Household Sector Innovation in China: Impacts of Income and Development." Chen, Jin, Yu-Shan Su, Jeroen P.J. de Jong, and Eric von Hippel. Research Policy Vol. 49, No. 4 (2020): 103931. "Open Sourcing as a Profit-Maximizing Strategy for Downstream Firms." Gambardella, Alfonso, and Eric von Hippel. Strategy Science Vol. 4, No. 1 (2019): 41-57. Download Paper. "When Patients Become Innovators." DeMonaco, Harry, Pedro Oliveira, Andrew Torrance, Christiana von Hippel, and Eric von Hippel. MIT Sloan Management Review, February 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 digital insights from MIT Sloan Management Review The digital economy can take organizations to new heights or cause them to fall spectacularly. Apr 26, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter How a small change will reduce distortion in measuring innovation A major economic development organization's definition of innovation just changed. Oct 30, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Financial Times Why my bad taste is the kiss of death Jan 17, 2020 Faculty: Duncan Simester Catherine Tucker Eric Arthur von Hippel Source: Freakonomics (Audio) Honey, I grew the economy (Ep. 399) Dec 4, 2019 Faculty: Eric Arthur von Hippel Source: STAT (Opinion Piece) Patient-innovators fill gaps that industry hasn't addressedor can't Jul 1, 2019 Faculty: Eric Arthur von Hippel Staff: Harold DeMonaco The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
