Jing Li | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jing Li Support Staff Dagmar Trantinova (617) 253-9748 dagmar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62 lijing@MIT.EDU (617) 252-1131 https://www.mit.edu/~lijing Title William Barton Rogers Career Development Professor of Energy Economics Assistant Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Jing Li holds the William Barton Rogers Career Development Chair of Energy Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Jing has been a Postdoctoral Associate of the MIT Energy Initiative. Her research interests are industrial organization and environmental and energy economics.She received her BS in mathematics with computer science and in economics, both from MIT, and an MA and PhD in economics, both from Harvard University. Publications "Cost Pass-Through to Higher Ethanol Blends at the Pump: Evidence from Minnesota Gas Station Data." Li, Jing and James H. Stock. Journal of Environmental Economics and Management Vol. 93, (2019): 1-19. Download Paper. Online Appendix. Recent Insights MIT Sloan Experts Why the environmental impact of COVID-19 could outweigh short-term benefits The COVID-19 pandemic has reduced CO2 and local air pollutant emissions, but what are the longer-term effects on the environment? Oct 13, 2020 Read More Press Potential long-term environmental effects from COVID-19 Pushing back investments in renewable electricity generation by one year could outweigh the emission reductions and deaths avoided from March through June 2020. Jul 9, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: HealthDay | 07/15/2020 Will COVID pandemic's environmental benefit last? Jul 15, 2020 Jing Li says: "..there is a real threat to the adoption of clean technology, which could outweigh any 'silver lining' in environmental benefits." Faculty: Jing Li Christopher Knittel The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
