Charles Hadlock | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Charles Hadlock Support Staff Carlos Pena (617) 253-5858 CPENA@MIT.EDU Get in Touch hadlock@mit.edu Title Visiting Professor, Finance About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Charles Hadlock is a Visiting Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is currently the Frederick S. Addy Distinguished Chair in Finance at the Eli Broad College of Business at Michigan State University where he has taught since 1998. He has previously taught at the University of Virginia (Associate Professor Commerce, 2004-2005), the University of Illinois (Assistant Professor of Finance, 1997-1998), the University of Florida (Assistant Professor of Finance, 1994-1997), the University of Michigan (Visiting Professor, 2002-2008) and the University of Chicago (Visiting Professor, 2010-2020). He received his PhD in economics (1994) from MIT and his BA in economics and mathematics (1989) from the University of Michigan.At Michigan State he has won ten college-wide teaching awards for his instruction in the Executive and Full-time MBA programs and in the undergraduate honors program. He received the 2011 and 2014 Michael Brennan Prize for the best paper published in theReview of Financial Studies. In 1997 he won the Merton Miller prize for the most outstanding research published in theJournal of Business.He was a recipient of a distinguished referee award at the Review of Financial Studies in 2016.His research is concentrated in the areas of corporate finance, management incentives and labor markets, capital structure and financial intermediation. His papers have appeared in leading journals in finance, economics, and accounting including theJournal of Finance, theReview of Financial Studies, theJournal of Accounting and Economics, theJournal of Business, theJournal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, and theRAND Journal of Economics.Over his career he has supervised over twenty doctoral dissertations. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
