Gary Gensler | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Gary Gensler Support Staff Lena Ngor (617) 253-3831 lngor@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-421 gensler@mit.edu (617) 253-5075 Title Professor of the Practice, Global Economics and Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Gary Gensler is Professor of the Practice of Global Economics and Management, MIT Sloan School of Management, Co-Director of MITs Fintech@CSAIL & Senior Advisor to the MIT Media Lab Digital Currency Initiative. He conducts research and teaches on blockchain technology, digital currencies, financial technology, and public policy. He won the MIT Sloan Outstanding Teacher Award based upon student nominations for the 2018-19 academic year.Formerly Gensler was chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, leading the Obama Administrations reform of the $400 trillion swaps market. He also was senior advisor to US Senator Paul Sarbanes in writing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (2002) and was Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance, and Assistant Secretary of the Treasury during the Clinton Administration. In recognition for his service, he was awarded Treasurys highest honor, the Alexander Hamilton Award. He is a recipient of the 2014 Frankel Fiduciary Prize.Gensler is currently a member of the New York Fed Fintech Advisory Group and was chairman of the Maryland Financial Consumer Protection Commission (2017-2019). He has worked on various political campaigns, most recently as CFO for Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign, as a senior advisor to Hillary Clintons 2008 campaign, and subsequently as an economic advisor for the Obama 2008 campaign.Gensler coauthored a book presenting common sense investing advice for middle income Americans, The Great Mutual Fund Trap, (Broadway Books, 2002). He has appeared regularly on national television commenting on the economy and politics. In 2016, Politico Magazine, included him in their list of the 50 Thinkers, doers and visionaries transforming American politics.Prior to his public service, Gensler worked at Goldman Sachs (1979-1997), having become a partner in the Mergers & Acquisition department, headed the firms Media Group, led fixed income & currency trading in Asia, and lastly co-headed Finance, being responsible for the firm's worldwide Controllers and Treasury efforts.A runner, Gensler has completed nine marathons and the JFK 50-mile race. He earned his undergraduate degree in economics in 1978 and his MBA from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania in 1979. He has three daughters, and is from Baltimore, Maryland. Publications "Deep Learning and Financial Stability." Gensler, Gary and Lily Bailey, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6223-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2020. SSRN Link. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 predictions on the future of financial regulation Three veteran policymakers on cryptocurrencies, fintechs, and the fate of commercial banks. Dec 17, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Blockchain for business Cryptocurrency aside, the supply chain is poised to be blockchains breakout application. Just ask Walmart and IBM. Oct 7, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The New York Times Biden's agency review teams look beyond corporate boardrooms Nov 11, 2020 For the Federal Reserve and other financial regulators, [Prof] Gary Gensler is taking the helm. Faculty: Gary Gensler Source: The Washington Post Biden taps proponents of stricter Wall Street rules for his agency revie... Nov 10, 2020 Joe Biden tapped Professors Gary Gensler and Simon Johnson for his agency review teams. Faculty: Gary Gensler Simon Johnson Source: Forbes 6 documents show what rumored Biden nominees could mean for bitcoin and ... Nov 9, 2020 Gary Gensler...was described by the Wall Street Journal in 2018 as having Bitcoin on the Brain...during the 2008 Global Financial Crisis. Faculty: Gary Gensler Source: Reuters Biden expected to appoint Gensler to advise on Wall Street oversight Nov 6, 2020 Joe Biden is expected to tap former derivatives market regulator Gary Gensler to advise on a transition plan for financial industry oversight. Faculty: Gary Gensler Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
