D Eleanor Westney | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty D Eleanor Westney curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building 62 ewestney@mit.edu (617) 945-2139 (617) 253-2660 Title Society of Sloan Fellows Professor of International Management Professor, Global Economics and Management, Emerita 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Eleanor Westney's long-term research interest is learning across borders (i.e., how organizational patterns developed in one social context are adapted in other societies). She is currently working on the internationalization of R&D, particularly in the context of firms establishing R&D centers in Japan, and Japanese firms setting up R&D facilities offshore. Publications "From Star to Dog - and Back? Changing Western Perspectives on Japans Business System." Westney, D. Eleanor. Tokyo, Japan: Hitotsubashi University Institute for Innovation Research, Forthcoming. Oxford Handbook of Industry Dynamics. Kipping, M., T. Furukawa, and D. Eleanor Westney. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, Forthcoming. "Chapter 2: International Business and Multi-Level Institutional Change: Looking Back and Facing Forward." Westney, D. Eleanor. In The Multiple Dimensions of Institution Complexity in International Business Research, Volume 15, edited by Alain Verbeke, Elizabeth L. Rose, Rob van Tulder, and Yingqi Wei, Somerville, MA: Emerald Publishing, 2021. "Reflecting on Japans Contributions to Management Theory." Westney, D. Eleanor. Asian Business and Management Vol. 19, No. 1 (2020): 8-24. "Reversing the Translation Flow: Moving Organizational Practices from Japan to the U.S." Westney, D. Eleanor, and Rebecca Piekkari. Journal of Management Studies Vol. 57, No. 1 (2020): 57-86. "What Happened to the Transnational? The Emergence of the Neo-Global Corporation." Jacqueline Mees-Bursch, Catherine Welsch, and D. Eleanor Westney. Journal of International Business Studies Vol. 50, (2019): 1514-1543. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
