Jiang Wang | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jiang Wang Support Staff Jenn Alton (617) 253-3386 jalton@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-614 wangj@mit.edu (617) 253-2632 (617) 258-6855 http://mit.edu/wangj/www/ Title Mizuho Financial Group Professor Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering Operations Research Center Jiang Wang is the Mizuho Financial Group Professorand a Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Wangs research focuses on the pricing of financial assets and investment and risk management. He is currently working on the characterization of financial risks, the impact of liquidity on asset prices, optimal trading execution, and optimal portfolio choices. He also is doing research on financial development in China.Wang holds a BS in physics from Nanjing University, a PhD in theoretical physics from the University of Pennsylvania, and a PhD in finance from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania.Current Research Focus: Wangs current research focuses on market frictions, market liquidity and their impact on trading strategies, asset pricing, risk management, and market stability. Recently, he also conducted research on the Chinese capital market and its development. Current projects include high frequency trading and market efficiency, optimal intervention policy during liquidity crisis, optimal portfolio execution, systemic risk and market liquidity, and Chinese Capital Market Yearbook and database. Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Trading and Information in Futures Markets." Llorente, Guillermo and Jiang Wang. Journal of Futures Markets. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Tri-Party Repo Pricing." Hu, Grace Xing, Jun Pan, and Jiang Wang. . Forthcoming. "Dynamic Portfolio Execution." Tsoukalas, Gerry, Jiang Wang, and Kay Giesecke. Management Science. Forthcoming. "FamaFrench in China: Size and Value Factors in Chinese Stock Returns." Hu, Grace Xing, Can Chen, Yuan Shao, and Jiang Wang. International Review of Finance Vol. 19, No. 1 (2019): 3-44. "Early Peek Advantage? Efficient Price Discovery with Tiered Information Disclosure." Hu, Grace Xing, Jun Pan, and Jiang Wang. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 126, No. 2 (2017): 399-421. Download Paper. "Market Selection." Kogan, Lenoid, Stephen Ross, Jiang Wang, and Mark Westerfield. Journal of Economic Theory Vol. 168, (2017): 209-236. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
