Joseph Doyle | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Joseph Doyle curriculum vitae Support Staff Nancy Suyo (617) 715-2845 NSUYO@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-515 jjdoyle@mit.edu (617) 452-3761 (617) 258-6786 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jjdoyle/ Title Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives MIT Sloan Health Systems Initiative Joseph Doyle is the Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management and Applied Economicsat the MIT Sloan School of Management.He studies public economics in the areas of healthcare and child welfare. His healthcare research investigates sources of value and waste to inform policies aimed at improving the quality and cost-effectiveness of the US healthcare system. This includes partnering with large healthcare providers and payers to conduct randomized controlled trials of changes in the ways healthcare is delivered with an emphasis on addressing social determinants of health. He conducts similar investigations into foster care and juvenile justice programs.Doyle is codirector of the MIT Sloan Initiative for Health Systems Innovation and cochair of the Health Sector of the Jameel Poverty Action Lab.He holds a BS from Cornell University and a PhD in economics from the University of Chicago. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Economics of Child Protection: Maltreatment, Foster Care & Intimate-Partner Violence." Doyle, Joseph J. and Anna Aizer. Annual Review of Economics Vol. 10, (2018): 87-108. Download paper. Featured Publication "Evaluating Measures of Hospital Quality: Evidence from Ambulance Referral Patterns." Doyle, Joseph J., John A. Graves, and Jonathan Gruber. Review of Economics and Statistics Vol. 101, No. 5 (2019): 841-852. Download Paper. Appendix. Press. Working Paper Version. "Health Care Hotspotting A Randomized, Controlled Trial." Finkelstein, Amy, Annetta Zhou, Sarah Taubman, and Joseph J. Doyle. New England Journal of Medicine No. 381 (2020): 151-162. "Birth Order and Delinquency: Evidence from Denmark and Florida." Breining, Sanni, Joseph J. Doyle, David N. Figlio, Krzysztof Karbowkik, and Jeffrey Roth. Journal of Labor Economics Vol. 38, No. 1 (2020): 95-142. Download Paper. Press. "Measuring Physician Quality: Evidence from Physician Availability." Doyle, Joseph J., Working Paper. 2019. "Clinical Decision Support for High-Cost Imaging: A Randomized Clinical Trial." Doyle, Joseph J., Sarah Abraham, Laura Feeney, Sarah Reimer, and Amy Finkelstein. PLOS ONE Vol. 14, No. 3 (2019): 1-13. Load More Recent Insights Press Software may hold key to guiding providers toward better healthcare The study is the first randomized evaluation of the impact of Clinical Decision Support Apr 11, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Using data to triage health care waste An economic analytics of health care experiments could save money. Oct 31, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The New York Times Magazine How an ill-fated fishing voyage helped us understand COVID-19 Oct 20, 2020 Sometimes if you need answers, you go with natural experiments that aren't potentially as super clean, but we can learn from them. Faculty: Joseph Doyle Source: BloombergQuint The health-care breakthrough that wasn't Jan 9, 2020 Faculty: Joseph Doyle Source: Health Data Management (Opinion Piece) How digital health tools can help transform healthcare Jul 30, 2019 Faculty: Joseph Doyle Source: WBUR | Bostonomix Why insulin defies the normal rules of economics and keeps getting more ... Jun 25, 2019 Faculty: Joseph Doyle Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
