Renee Richardson Gosline | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Renee Richardson Gosline Support Staff Katie Means (617) 324-4253 kmeans@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-362 rgosline@mit.edu (617) 452-4303 (617) 258-7597 Title Senior Lecturer and Research Scientist, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Rene Richardson Gosline is a Senior Lecturer in the Management Science group at the MIT Sloan School of Management and a Principal Research Scientist at MIT's Initiative on The Digital Economy.She is a 2020 honoree on the Thinkers50 Radar List of thinkers who are putting a dent in the universe, and has been named one of the Worlds Top 40 Professors under 40 byPoets and Quants. Gosline is an expert on the intersection between behavioral science and technology, and the implications for cognitive bias in human decision-making. She is a leading thinker on the science of digital brand strategy and her research and expertise have been published in various academic and trade publications.Renes research examines how social structure and technology (e.g., Digital Customer Experience, Status, Social Media) affect performance and self-perception (as featured in her Tedx talk, The Outsourced Mind). Her projects have examined: how cognitive style predicts preference for AI versus human input; the interaction of brand status and placebo effects in performance; how consumers determine real from fake products; the circumstances under which customers perceive value in platforms; and the effects of storytelling in social media on trust and persuasion. In order to address these issues rigorously, Gosline employs experimental methodology, both in the field and the laboratory.Rene enjoys teaching MBA and Executive Education classes on CX (Customer Experience), Brand strategy, Nudge Strategy, and Experimentation. She has also collaborated with a variety of firms on CX, Digital Media Strategy, and Leadership. Prior to academia, she was a marketing practitioner at LVMH Moet Hennessy and Leo Burnett.Rene conducted her Undergraduate, Masters, and Doctoral education at Harvard University. Publications "Reversing the Placebo: Performance-Branded Experiences Can Undermine Consumer Performance." Banker, Sachin, Rene Richardson Gosline, and Jeffrey K. Lee. Journal of Consumer Psychology. Forthcoming. "Can a Girls Best Friend Be Born in a Lab? The Role of Ritual in Production Process Conservatism." Ha, Jae Kyung, Ezra W. Zuckerman Sivan, and Rene Richardson Gosline. In Advances in Group Processes, edited by Edward Lawler and S.R.Thye, 1-27. Bingley, UK: Emerald Publishing Limited, 2018. "TEDx Talk: "The Outsourced Mind"." Gosline, Rene Richardson. TED, August 2017. "The Power of Behavioral Science for Emerging Economies: MIT Explores Cuba and Trinidad & Tobago." Gosline, Rene Richardson. HuffPost, February 9, 2017. "The Power of Consumer Stories in Digital Marketing." Gosline, Rene Richardson, Jeffrey K. Lee, and Glen Urban. MIT Sloan Management Review, 2017. "Chapter 11: From Stranger to Friend: Shaping Consumer-Brand Relationships with Social Media." Gosline, Rene Richardson. In Strong Brands, Strong Relationships, 161-171. New York, NY: Routledge, 2015. Load More Recent Insights MIT Sloan Experts 'Human-Centered AI': How can the technology industry fight bias in machines and people? MIT Sloan Senior Lecturer Rene Richardson Gosline discusses how the development of bots and algorithms is outpacing our understanding of who and when they help most. Nov 19, 2020 Read More Ideas Made to Matter 3 from MIT make Thinkers50 Radar list Thinkers50 recognizes business thought leaders from around the world. Here are the MIT members who are part of the Radar Class of 2020. Feb 6, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Thinkers50 Thinkers50 Radar Class of 2020: Rene Richardson Gosline Feb 4, 2020 Faculty: Renee Richardson Gosline Source: Psychology Today (Opinion Piece) Technology and the road to self-improvement Nov 19, 2019 Faculty: Renee Richardson Gosline Source: National Geographic Magazine Cultivating conversations on unconscious bias Jun 14, 2019 Faculty: Renee Richardson Gosline The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
