Alexandre Jacquillat | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Alexandre Jacquillat linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-586 alexjacq@MIT.EDU (412) 715-4848 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/ajacquillat/ Title Assistant Professor, Operations Research and Statistics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Alexandre Jacquillat is an Assistant Professor of Operations Research and Statistics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on data-driven decision-making, spanning stochastic optimization, large-scale optimization, mechanism design and field experimentation. His primary focus is on problems of scheduling, operations and pricing in the transportation sectorwith a particular interest in air traffic management and on-demand mobility.Alexandre is the recipient of several research awards, including the 2017 Best Paper Award from the INFORMS Transportation Science and Logistics Society, the 2015 George B. Dantzig Dissertation Award from INFORMS, the 2015 Dissertation Award from the INFORMS Transportation and Logistics Society, the Milton Pikarsky Memorial Award from the Council of University Transportation Centers, and the L.E. Rivot Medal from the French Academy of Science.Prior to joining MIT, Alexandre was an Assistant Professor of Operations Research and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon Universitys Heinz College. Alexandre also worked with McKinsey & Co. and Booz Allen Hamilton, advising leading companies and governmental organizations in transportation analytics. He received a PhD in engineering systems from MIT, a Master of Science in technology and policy from MIT, and a Master of Science in applied mathematics from the cole Polytechnique. Honors Bertsimas and Jacquillat win Pierskalla Best Paper Award Dimitris Bertsimas and Alex Jacquillat have won the 2020 Pierskalla Best Paper Award from the Health Applications Society of INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences).This award recognizes research excellence in the field of health care management science. Their winning paper, From predictions to prescriptions: A data-driven response to COVID-19, was co-authored with Lonard Boussioux, Ryan Cory-Wright, Arthur Delarue, Vassilis Digalakis Jr., Driss Lahlou Kitane, Michael Li, Agni Orfanoudaki, Theodore Papalexopoulos, Ivan Paskov, Kimberly Villalobos Carballo, Holly Wiberg, and Cynthia Zeng (all MIT Operations Research Center PhD students advised by Bertsimas); Omar Skali Lami (ORC PhD student advised by Bertsimas and Georgia Perakis); Galit Lukin (Datadog, ORC SM 20, advised by Bertsimas); Jean Pauphilet (London Business School, ORC PhD 20, advised by Bertsimas); Luca Mingardi (Interpretable AI, MIT Sloan MBAn 20, advised by Bertsimas); Hamza Tazi Bouardi (BCG GAMMA, MIT Sloan MBAn 20, advised by Bertsimas); and two of Bertsimass former postdocs, Omid Nohadani (Northwestern) and Bartolomeo Stellato (Princeton). Read More Jacquillat wins teaching award Alexandre Jacquillat has won a 2020 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for his work teaching on campus and/or remotely. Jacquillat won the award along with fellow Sloan faculty members Kara Blackburn, Vivek Farias, Michelle Hanlon, Miro Kazakoff, Ben Shields, and Rodrigo Verdi. These student-nominated awards recognize faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.This recognition also gives the MIT community the opportunity to learn from their innovative practices. The awards were co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor.This year, students submitted a total of 487 nominations for 232 faculty and instructors, and 30 winners were selected by Dean of Digital Learning Krishna Rajagopal and Vice Chancellor Ian Waitz, with help from MIT Open Learning staff. Read More Publications Google Scholar "Integrated Scheduling Interventions and Flow Management in Air Transportation Networks." Wang, Kai, and Alexandre Jacquillat. Operations Research. Forthcoming. "Strategic Timing and Dynamic Pricing In On-Demand Platforms." Abhishek, Vibhanshu, Mustafa Dogan, and Alexandre Jacquillat. Management Science. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "A Stochastic Integer Programming Approach to Air Traffic Scheduling and Operations." Wang, Kai, and Alexandre Jacquillat. Operations Research Vol. 68, No. 5 (2020): 1375-1402. "Dynamic Airline Disruption Management Under Airport Operating Uncertainty." Lee, Jane, Lavanya Marla, and Alexandre Jacquillat. Transportation Science Vol. 54, No. 4 (2020): 973-997. Download Paper. "From Predictions to Prescriptions: A Data-Driven Response to COVID-19." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Alexandre Jacquillat et al, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6225-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "Optimal Escort Dispatch for Airport Travelers with Reduced Mobility." Grahn, Rick, and Alexandre Jacquillat. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies Vol. 111, (2020): 421-438. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Tips for digital teaching from prizewinning professors Distance learning is now standard, whether hybrid or fully online. Heres how to excel at remote teaching, according to five MIT Sloan faculty members. Aug 25, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
