Jacquelyn Pless | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jacquelyn Pless twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building E62-479 jpless@mit.edu (617) 715-4849 http://jacquelynpless.com Title Fred Kayne (1960) Career Development Professor of Entrepreneurship Assistant Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Jacquelyn Pless is the Fred Kayne (1960) Career Development Professor of Entrepreneurship and an Assistant Professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Her research interests are in the economics of innovation, energy and environmental economics, and public economics.Her research focuses on understanding how policy affects firm behavior and innovation outcomes, with a particular interest in clean energy innovation. Current projects concentrate on the role of public subsidies in driving private research and development investments and the direction of innovation. Other work examines renewable energy markets and how environmental policy impacts firm competitiveness.She holds an MS and PhD in mineral and energy economics from the Colorado School of Mines, and a BA in economics and political science from the University of Vermont. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Pass-Through as a Test for Market Power: An Application to Solar Subsidies." Pless, Jacquelyn, and Arthur A. van Benthem. American Economic Journal: Applied Economics Vol. 11, No. 4 (2019): 367-401. Online Appendix. Data Set. NBER Working Paper No. 23260. Featured Publication "Are Complementary Policies Substitutes? Evidence from R&D Subsidies in the UK." Pless, Jacquelyn, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5788-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2019. "Information Searching in the Residential Solar PV Market." Pless, Jacquelyn, H. Fell, and B. Sigrin. The Energy Journal. Forthcoming. "Bringing Rigour to Energy Innovation Policy Evaluation." Pless, Jacquelyn, Cameron Hepburn, and Niall Farrell. Nature Energy Vol. 5, No. 4 (2020): 284-290. "Addressing the Soft Cost Challenge in U.S. Small-Scale Solar PV System Pricing." OShaughnessy, Eric, Gregory F. Nemet, Jacquelyn Pless, and Robert Margolis. Energy Policy Vol. 134, (2019): 1-8. "Solar Photovoltaic Self-consumption in the UK Residential Sector: New Estimates from a Smart Grid Demonstration Project." McKenna, Eoghan, Jacquelyn Pless, and Sarah J Darby. Energy Policy Vol. 118, (2018): 482-491. Load More Recent Insights Press Key challenges and solutions for evaluating energy innovation policy While substantial innovation is needed to enable the transition to clean energy systems, evidence is limited as to what policy mechanisms actually work to help drive private-sector innovation. May 12, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 2 MIT Sloan courses prepare future innovation managers In Innovation Strategy and Innovation Analytics, new methods for success in high-tech industries. Feb 4, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Bloomberg Law (Opinion Piece) Insight: Clean energy innovation can make COVID-19 recovery greener Jun 4, 2020 Prof. Jacquelyn Pless writes: "The air quality improvements and emissions reductions that were seeing today are undoubtedly temporary. Faculty: Jacquelyn Pless Source: Smart Energy International Energy innovation: Challenges to evaluating policies and addressing them May 13, 2020 A new whitepaper released by Prof. Jacquelyn Pless identifies five key challenges to evaluating energy innovation policies and programmes. Faculty: Jacquelyn Pless Source: PV Magazine Monopolies aren't as sexy as they want you to think Oct 30, 2019 Faculty: Jacquelyn Pless Source: Poets & Quants All the new faculty at the top 25 schools Sep 11, 2019 Faculty: Jackson G. Lu Basima Tewfik Abdullah Almaatouq Daniel Freund Jacquelyn Pless The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
