Jeffrey L. Shames | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jeffrey L. Shames Support Staff Rianna Allen-Charles (617) 452-3417 rallen@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-690 jshames@mit.edu (617) 253-6033 (617) 258-6855 Title Senior Lecturer, Finance About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Jeffrey Shames is an Executive in Residence at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he lectures in Finance, Leadership, and Global Health Management.He is the retired chairman and CEO of MFS Investment Management and the board of trustees of the MFS Funds. Shames joined MFS in 1983 as an industry analyst and was named a portfolio manager in 1985; chief equity officer in 1987; president and a member of the board in 1993; and chairman and chief executive officer in 1998. In September 2002 he retired as CEO and retained the chairman title until his retirement in February 2004.Currently, he is the senior strategy advisor for Rockefeller Capital Management where he advises the CEO on corporate strategy, organizational structure, due diligence on acquisitions, personnel decisions, and serves on the Corporate Board.From 2010-2013 he was a senior advisor at Morgan Stanley where he advised the President of Morgan Stanley Investment Management and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Wealth Management.He is a member of the board of trustees of the X Prize Foundation, City Year, Summer Search, Tufts Medical Center, Otis College of Fine Arts, the Berklee College of Music, and is a trustee emeritus of Wesleyan University. He also serves as a member of the advisory boards of the MIT Sloan School of Management, MIT Masters of Finance Program, and the Wesleyan University Entrepreneurship center.Shames graduated from Wesleyan University in 1977 and the MIT Sloan School of Management in 1983. In between college and graduate school he served as a U.S. Peace Corps volunteer in Fiji and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
