Retsef Levi | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Retsef Levi curriculum vitae Support Staff Annie Burrell (617) 253-2656 aburrell@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-562 retsef@mit.edu (617) 253-4155 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/retsef/ Title J. Spencer Standish (1945) Professor of Management Professor, Operations Management Co-Director of Leaders for Global Operations Program 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Food Supply Chain Analytics and Sensing Initiative Retsef Levi is the J. Spencer Standish (1945) Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. He is a member of the Operations Management Group at MIT Sloan and affiliated with the MIT Operations Research Center. Levi also serves as the Faculty Co-Director of the MIT Leaders for Global Operations (LGO).Before coming to MIT, he spent a year in the Department of Mathematical Sciences at the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center as the holder of the Goldstine Postdoctoral Fellowship. He received a Bachelor's degree in Mathematics from Tel-Aviv University (Israel) in 2001, and a PhD in Operations Research from Cornell University in 2005. Levi spent almost 12 years in the Israeli Defense Forces as an officer in the Intelligence Wing and was designated as an Extra Merit Officer. After leaving the Military, Levi joined an emerging new Israeli hi-tech company as a Business Development Consultant. Levi's current research is focused on the design of analytical data-driven decision support models and tools addressing complex business and system design decisions under uncertainty in areas such as health and healthcare management, supply chain, procurement and inventory management, revenue management, pricing optimization and logistics. He is interested in the theory underlying these models and algorithms, as well as their computational and organizational applicability in practical settings. Levi has been leading several industry-based collaborative research efforts with some of the major academic hospitals in the Boston area, such as Mass General Hospital (MGH), Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC), Childrens Hospital, and across the U.S. (e.g., Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, NYC Presbyterian Hospital System and the American Association of Medical Colleges). Levi was the PI on an MIT contract with the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to develop systematic risk management approach to address risk related to economically motivated adulterations of food manufactured in global supply chains. With a multi-million award from the Walmart Foundation, Levi currently leads a multi-year U.S.-China collaborative effort to develop new predictive risk analytics tools and testing technologies and platforms to address core food safety challenges in China. Levi has also been involved in developing operational risk and process safety management methodologies for various organizations in the healthcare, pharmaceutical and oil industries. Levi received the NSF Faculty Early Career Development award, the 2008 INFORMS Optimization Prize for Young Researchers, the 2013 Daniel H. Wagner Prize and the 2016 Harold W. Kuhn Award.Levi teaches regularly courses on operations management, analytics, risk management, system thinking and healthcare to students from various degree and non-degree programs including MBA, Executive MBA, PhD, Master and Undergraduate students as well as Executive Education programs. His Healthcare Lab course attracts students from across the MIT campus and engages major industry partners and leaders. Levi has graduated 10 PhD students, 34 Master students and 6 postdoctoral fellows. He was also awarded several prestigious teaching awards. Honors Levi and Magnanti win Kuhn Award Retsef Levi and Tom Magnanti have received the 2016 Harold W. Kuhn Award, an annual prize which recognizes an exceptional paper published in Naval Research Logistics during the previous three years. Their winning paper, co-authored with Jack Muckstadt (Cornell University assistant professor), Danny Segev (University of Haifa), and Eric Zarybnisky (MIT SM 03, PhD 11), is entitled Maintenance Scheduling for Modular Systems: Modeling and Algorithms." Read More Retsef Levi has received a National Science Foundation Career Grant Retsef Levi has received a National Science Foundation Career Grant for his proposal: "New Algorithmic Approaches to Computationally Challenging Stochastic Supply Chain and Revenue Management Models." This award is among the most highly-regarded distinctions in government-funded scientific organizations. Read More Retsef Levi and co-authors were chosen to receive the INFORMS Optimization Society Young Researcher Prize Retsef Levi and his co-authors Mahesh Nagarajan from UBC and Ganesh Janakiraman from NYU Stern, were chosen to receive the INFORMS Optimization Society Young Researcher Prize at the INFORMS annual conference in October for their paper entitled "A 2-Approximation Algorithm for Stochastic Inventory Control Models with Lost Sales" that appeared in Mathematics of Operations Research. Read More Levi's paper wins Wagner Prize Retsef Levis paper, Matching Supply and Demand: Delayed Two-Phase Distribution at Yedioth Group Models, Algorithms, and Information Technology, was awarded the 2013 INFORMS Daniel H. Wagner prize for Excellence in Operations Research Practice. Theprize was established in 1998 to commemorate the life and work of Daniel H. Wagner.See the winning paper, which was co-authored byAssaf Avrahami andYale T. Herer,here. Read More Publications SSRN "Testing at the Source: Analytics-Enabled Risk-Based Sampling of Food Supply Chains in China." Jin, Cangyu, Retsef Levi, Qiao Liang, Nicholas Renegar, Stacy Springs, Jiehong Zhou, and Weihua Zhou. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Predicting COVID-19 Infection Risk and Related Risk Drivers in Nursing Homes: A Machine Learning Approach." Sun, Christopher L.F., Eugenio Zuccarelli, El Ghali A. Zerhouni, Jason Lee, James Muller, Karen M. Scott, Alida M. Lujan, and Retsef Levi. Journal of the American Medical Directors Association Vol. 21, No. 11 (2020): 1533-1538. "Assortment Optimization under Consider-then-Choose Choice Models." Aouad, Ali, Vivek F. Farias, and Retsef Levi. Management Science (2020). Download Paper. "Strategic Capacity Planning Problems in Revenue Sharing Joint Ventures." Levi, Retsef, Georgia Perakis, Cong Shi, and Wei Sun. Production and Operations Management Vol. 29, No. 3 (2020): 664-687. Download Paper. "The Impact of Unifying Agricultural Wholesale Markets on Prices and Farmers Profitability." Levi, Retsef, Manoj Rajan, Somya Singhvi, and Y. Karen Zheng. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 117, No. 5 (2020): 2366-2371. "Economically Motivated Adulteration in Farming Supply Chains." Levi, Retsef, Somya Singhvi, and Y. Karen Zheng. Management Science Vol. 66, No. 1 (2020): 209-226. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A COVID-19 playbook for nursing homes Download the MIT COVID-19 Policy Alliances new report for nursing facility leaders and policymakers. Nov 2, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter How a simple calculator and job portal are fighting COVID-19 A group of MIT Sloan faculty and students are using analytics to help senior homes stock up on protective gear and fill health care support roles. Jun 8, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Chicago Booth Review Can government programs get people to eat more healthily? Jun 30, 2020 ...the impact of certain interventions on fruit and vegetable consumption is not well established. Faculty: Retsef Levi Georgia Perakis Source: The Boston Globe (Opinion Piece) How to reduce coronavirus deaths in nursing homes Apr 17, 2020 MIT Sloan's Simon Johnson, Kate Kellogg, and Retsef Levi write: "Residents of nursing facilities in Massachusetts are in grave danger." Faculty: Simon Johnson Kate Kellogg Retsef Levi Source: The Washington Post (Subscription Required) How a surge of coronavirus patients could stretch hospital resources in ... Apr 9, 2020 Faculty: Retsef Levi Source: Fast Company MIT researchers made maps that show your area's COVID-19 risk score Mar 26, 2020 Faculty: Simon Johnson Retsef Levi Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
