Parag Pathak | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Parag Pathak Get in Touch Building E52-426 ppathak@mit.edu (617) 253-7458 http://economics.mit.edu/faculty/ppathak Title MIT Professor 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Parag A. Pathak is a Professor of Economics at MIT, founding co-director of the NBER Working Group on Market Design, and founder of MIT's School Effectiveness and Inequality Initiative (SEII), a laboratory focused on education, human capital, and the income distribution. In 2005, based on work in his PhD thesis, Boston's school committee adopted a new mechanism for student placement, citing the desire to make it easier for participants to navigate and to level the playing field for the city's families. He has also helped todesign the Chicago, Denver, Newark, New Orleans, New York, and Washington DC school choice systems. His work on market design and education was recognized with a Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers and an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship. In 2012, he was selected to give the Shapley Lecture at GAMES2012 as a distinguished game theorist under age 40. In 2013, he was appointed as Mayor Thomas Menino's chief technical advisor for Boston's student assignment plan. Under his direction, SEII provided a formal analysis of different alternatives, which eventually led to the most significant change in Boston's school choice system since the end of court-ordered busing. The IMF listed him as one of 25 top economists under age 45 in 2014. He was awarded the 2016 Social Choice and Welfare as the top young scholar in social choice and welfare economics together with Fuhito Kojima. In addition to generating academic publications that study, develop, and test different student assignment systems, Pathak's research work has directly affected the lives of over one million public school students. Pathak also studies K-12 education and urban economics. He has authored leading studies on charter schools, high school reform, selective education, and school choice. In urban economics, he has measured the effects of foreclosures on house prices and how the housing market reacted to the end of rent control in Cambridge MA.Pathak's research has been supported by research grants from the National Science Foundation, the Laura and John Arnold Foundation, the Boston Foundation, and the Lincoln Institute for Land Policy. He has served as an Associate Editor at the American Economic Review and Econometrica.Pathak is a board member of theInstitute for Innovation in Public School Choice, a non-profit which provides assistance to districts on school assignment. Media Highlights Source: Freakonomics (Audio) Who gets the ventilator? (Ep. 413) Apr 16, 2020 Should a nurse or doctor who gets sick treating Covid-19 patients have priority access to a potentially life-saving healthcare device? Faculty: Parag Pathak Source: Business Insider Parents choosing high schools for their kids place more value on the stu... Nov 6, 2019 Faculty: Parag Pathak Source: ScienceNews Parag Pathak uses data and algorithms to make public education fairer Oct 2, 2019 Faculty: Parag Pathak Source: NPR What if elite colleges switched to a lottery for admissions? Mar 27, 2019 Faculty: Parag Pathak Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
