Claudia Steinwender | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Claudia Steinwender twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Nancy Suyo (617) 715-2845 NSUYO@MIT.EDU Get in Touch Building E62-521 csteinwe@mit.edu (617) 253-7974 https://sites.google.com/site/clsteinwender/ Title Douglas Drane Career Development Professor in Information Technology and Management Assistant Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Claudia Steinwender is an Assistant Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and is affiliated with the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), and Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics (CEP).Her research interests are in the fields of international trade, innovation, and economic history. Most recently, Steinwender has studied the way information affects the behavior of exporting merchants, using the transatlantic telegraph connection established in 1866 as a historical example of a dramatic reduction in information frictions.She was an assistant professor of business in the Strategy Unit at Harvard Business School. Before joining HBS, she was an IES Fellow at Princeton University. Prior to her doctoral studies, Steinwender was a management consultant at McKinsey and Company.Steinwender has won awards for her research, including the 2014 WTO Essay Award for Young Economists, and her work has been cited inThe EconomistandDer Standard.She holds a Masters degree in economic mathematics from the Vienna University of Technology, a Masters degree in international business administration from the University of Vienna, and a PhD in economics from the London School of Economics. Honors NBER appoints Steinwender as a Faculty Research Fellow The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) has recently appointed four MIT Sloan faculty members as Faculty Research Fellows, including Claudia Steinwender, who has been appointed a fellow in both the Productivity, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship and the International Trade and Investment programs. Christian Catalini, Namrata Kala, and Christopher Palmer were also appointed as fellows. The NBER is the nations leading nonprofit economic research organization, whose affiliates have included 27 Nobel Prize winners and 13 past chairs of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers. While the NBER remains impartial and does not make public policy recommendations, NBER research findings are disseminated among academics, public policy makers, and business professionals, bringing critical information to many important public policy debates. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "The Real Effects of Information Frictions: When the States and the Kingdom Became United." Steinwender, Claudia. American Economic Review Vol. 108, No. 3 (2018): 657-696. Online Appendix. Der Standard. CentrePiece. Media: Trade Talks. 2014 WTO Essay Award for Young Economists. Featured Publication "The Impact of Trade Liberalization on Firm Productivity and Innovation." Shu, Pian, and Claudia Steinwender. In Innovation Policy and the Economy, Volume 19, edited by Josh Lerner and Scott Stern, 39-68. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2018. "Import Competition, Heterogeneous Preferences of Managers, and Productivity." Chen, Cheng, and Claudia Steinwender, Working Paper. 2020. Online Appendix. "Spinning the Web: Codifiability, Information Frictions, and Trade." Juhsz, Rka, and Claudia Steinwender, Working Paper. 2018. Online Appendix. Media: Trade Talks. "Survive Another Day: Using Changes in the Composition of Investments to Measure the Cost of Credit Constraints." Garicano, Luis, and Claudia Steinwender. Review of Economics and Statistics Vol. 98, No. 5 (2016): 913-924. HBS Working Knowledge. Media: The Economist. Online Appendix. "The Intellectual Spoils of War? Defense R&D, Productivity and Spillovers." Moretti, Enrico, Claudia Steinwender, and John Van Reenen, Working Paper. 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter What to know about MIT Sloans 5 new faculty members New professors explore the consequences of financial reporting, how labor markets act during periods of turmoil, and more. Aug 21, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: London School of Economics - LSE Business Review (Opinion Piece) Does more competition spur innovation or discourage it? Mar 6, 2020 Faculty: Claudia Steinwender Source: London School of Economics - LSE Business Review (Opinion Piece) How free trade changes domestic firms' ability to innovate Jan 29, 2020 Faculty: Claudia Steinwender Scott Stern Source: Bloomberg | Economics Military spending on R&D is a boon for the private sector Dec 4, 2019 Faculty: Claudia Steinwender Source: Financial Times The myth of crowding out Dec 2, 2019 Faculty: Claudia Steinwender The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
