Louis Anthony Rodriques | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Louis Anthony Rodriques Support Staff Patty Charest (617) 253-5701 pcharest@mit.edu Get in Touch louisrod@mit.edu (617) 939-1750 Title Senior Lecturer 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Law Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Lou Rodriques is a Senior Lecturer in Law at MIT Sloan, a position he assumed soon after retiring from his partnership at Bingham McCutchen, a leading global law firm with offices in the US, Europe, and Asia. However, for over 30 years, Lou has been a frequent guest lecturer in MIT Sloan law courses and involved in the design of the Sloan law curriculum. Lou now co-teaches most of the courses that comprise the MIT Sloan law curriculum, including courses focused on employment and career issues, general business law, and legal aspects of digital technologies.Lou practiced law in Boston for 37 years. During his career, he specialized in Labor and Employment law and General Litigation. As a general litigator, Lou handled a wide array of cases in state and federal court and before administrative agencies, including cases involving intellectual property rights, securities fraud, joint venture disputes, discrimination and sexual harassment, employment disputes of all types, trusts and estates, breach of contract, libel and slander, disputes arising out of mergers and acquisitions, and disputes involving whistleblowing by corporate insiders. As an employment lawyer, Lou advised a wide range of companies on the full range of issues involving their employees, including large multinational corporations, money management firms, hedge funds, life sciences companies, tech companies, and numerous start-ups. He also advised middle managers and executives as they changed careers. Lou also worked on numerous mergers and acquisitions, advising acquirers and targets about employment issues and general litigation risk. Lou conducted or participated in numerous internal investigations involving matters such as sexual and other forms of harassment, theft of intellectual property, securities law violations, and potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.When approaching employment law issues in his MIT Sloan teaching, Lou focuses on the various legal issues faced by companies when managing their employees, as well as by employees and managers at critical junctures throughout their careers. These issues include the enforceability of nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements, privacy at work, harassment and discrimination issues, terminating employees, and managing litigation risk. Students also explore the impact of artificial intelligence, social media and other new technologies at work, and the challenges such technologies pose for existing legal frameworks.For over 20 years, Lou served as a member of the Massachusetts Bar Associations Committee on Professional Ethics. The Committee provided confidential advice to members of the bar concerning their ethical responsibilities as lawyers. The Committee also published formal opinions on new or complex ethical issues as guidance for the legal community. Lou authored several such opinions.Lou earned a BA in history from Yale University in 1975, and a JD from Yale Law School in 1978. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter New MIT Sloan courses cover emergent ideas New and updated this spring: analytics for innovation; the changing global economy; digital technology and the law. Jan 25, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 4 fresh courses for fall From blockchain to machine learning, here are the new MIT courses that are generating attention. Sep 5, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Clear Admit A day in the life at MIT Sloan Oct 25, 2019 Faculty: John L. Akula Arnold I. Barnett Christopher F. Noe Haoxiang Zhu Louis Anthony Rodriques The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
