William F. Pounds | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty William F. Pounds Get in Touch Building E52-126 wpounds@comcast.net (781) 538-5798 (617) 253-6405 Title Professor Emeritus of Management Professor, Work and Organization Studies and Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Dean Emeritus 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences William Pounds is Professor Emeritus of Management, aProfessor of Organization Studies, and Dean Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management. An expert in corporate governance and operations management, Pounds has served as a director of many companies and as a trustee of a number of nonprofit organizations. From 1981 to 1991, he was the senior advisor to the Rockefeller Family. He observes, writes, and teaches about the management and governance of organizations of all kinds. Pounds holds a BS in chemical engineering from Carnegie Institute of Technology as well as an MS in mathematical economics and a PhD from the Graduate School of Industrial Administration. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Why Stew Myers matters Colleagues, former students, and friends detail a legacy built over 50 years at MIT Sloan. Aug 2, 2016 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) Can a pandemic aid the fight against global warming? May 17, 2020 Prof. Henry Jacoby and co-authors write: ...even under all of this stress, we cannot afford to forget the peril posed by an overheated planet." Faculty: Henry Donnan Jacoby William F. Pounds The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
