Emil Verner | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Emil Verner twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Jenn Alton (617) 253-3386 jalton@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-635 everner@mit.edu (202) 322-8532 https://www.emilverner.com/ Title Class of 1957 Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Emil Verner is theClass of 1957 Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Verners research focuses on the connection between financial markets and the macroeconomy in both advanced and emerging markets. His recent research examines the role of household credit markets in amplifying business cycle fluctuations. In related work, Verner has also studied the real economic consequences of banking sector distress during financial crises around the world over the past 150 years.Verner received his undergraduate degree in economics from the University of Copenhagen and his PhD in economics from Princeton University. Current Research Focus: Verner's current research focuses on the connection between financial markets and economic activity, both in advanced and emerging markets. In several recent studies, he has examined the role of household credit markets in amplifying business cycle fluctuations. In related work, Verner has also studied the real economic consequences of banking sector distress during financial crises around the world over the past 150 years. Finally, in ongoing research, Verner is currently exploring what role financial distress has played in the recent rise in populism. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Household Debt and Business Cycles Worldwide." Mian, Atif, Amir Sufi, and Emil Verner. The Quarterly Journal of Economics Vol. 132, No. 4 (2017): 1755-18171. Out of sample results. The Economist. Equitable Growth. NBER Digest. Appendix. "Pandemics Depress the Economy, Public Health Interventions Do Not: Evidence from the 1918 Flu." Correia, Sergio, Stephan Luck, and Emil Verner, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6087-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "Salient Crises, Quiet Crises." Baron, Matthew, Emil Verner, and Wei Xiong, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5843-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2019. Media: EconReporter. "Private Debt Booms and the Real Economy: Do the Benefits Outweigh the Costs?" Verner, Emil. In NextGen 2019 Conference of the Private Debt Initiative of The Governor's Woods Foundation, New York, NY: June 2019. Link to all conference presentations. Video of presentation. "Household Debt Revaluation and the Real Economy: Evidence from a Foreign Currency Debt Crisis." Verner, Emil and Gyz Gyngysi, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5476-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2020. "Financial Crisis, Creditor-Debtor Conflicts, and Political Extremism." Gyngysi, Gyz, and Emil Verner, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5480-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2020. Media: The Hill. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Confronting coronavirus: Insight from MIT Sloan Managing in a pandemic requires knowledge and foresight. These articles examine whats next for the economy, remote work, and an innovative vaccine. Apr 10, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Boston Globe (Opinion Piece) Public health interventions in the COVID-19 pandemic can help the econom... Apr 13, 2020 Faculty: Emil Verner Source: National Public Radio (Audio) Pandemic-onomics: Lessons From The Spanish Flu Apr 6, 2020 Faculty: Emil Verner Source: The Boston Globe Will social distancing help the economy recover from coronavirus? An MIT... Apr 1, 2020 Faculty: Emil Verner Source: Reuters The U.S. weighs the grim math of death vs. the economy Mar 30, 2020 Faculty: Emil Verner Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
