Christopher Knittel | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Christopher Knittel curriculum vitae Support Staff Dagmar Trantinova (617) 253-9748 dagmar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-527 knittel@mit.edu (617) 324-0015 Title George P. Shultz Professor Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Christopher Knittel is the George P. Shultz Professorand a Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Prior to MIT Sloan, Knittel taught at the University of California, Davis, and at Boston University. His research focuses on industrial organization, environmental economics, and applied econometrics.Knittel is an associate editor of The American Economic Journal Economic Policy, The Journal of Industrial Economics, and the Journal of Energy Markets. His research has appeared in The American Economic Review, The Review of Economics and Statistics, The Journal of Industrial Economics, The Energy Journal, and other academic journals. He also is a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research in the Productivity, Industrial Organization, and Energy and Environmental Economics groups.Knittel holds a BA in economics and political science from California State University, Stanislaus; an MA in economics from the University of California, Davis; and a PhD in economics from the University of California, Berkeley.http://knittel.world Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Natural Gas Prices and Coal Displacement: Evidence from Electricity Markets." Knittel, Christopher R., Konstantinos Metaxoglou, and Andre Trindade. International Journal of Industrial Organization. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "The Efficiency and Distributional Effects of Alternative Residential Electricity Rate Designs." Burger, Scott P., Christopher R. Knittel, Ignacio J. Perez-Arriaga, Ian Schneider, and Frederik vom Scheidt. The Energy Journal. Forthcoming. "The Short-run and Long-run Effects of Covid-19 on Energy and the Environment." Gillingham, Kenneth T., Christopher R. Knittel Jing Li, Marten Ovaere, and Mar Reguant. Joule. Forthcoming. "The Use of Regression Statistics to Analyze Imperfect Pricing Policies." Jacobsen, Mark R., Christopher R. Knittel, James M. Sallee, and Arthur A. van Benthem. Journal of Political Economy. Forthcoming. "What Does and Does not Correlate with COVID-19 Death Rates." Knittel, Christopher R. and Bora Ozaltun, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6140-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "The Local Economic and Welfare Consequences of Hydraulic Fracturing." Bartik, Alexander W., Janet Currie, Michael Greenstone, and Christopher R. Knittel. American Economic Journal: Applied Economics. Vol. 11, No. 4 (2019): 105-155. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights MIT Sloan Experts Why the environmental impact of COVID-19 could outweigh short-term benefits The COVID-19 pandemic has reduced CO2 and local air pollutant emissions, but what are the longer-term effects on the environment? Oct 13, 2020 Read More Ideas Made to Matter 4 unexpected findings about COVID-19 deaths Obesity rates, poverty rates, and pollution may not correlate with COVID-19 deaths after all. But public transportation does. Jul 15, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Wired Should governments slap a tax on plastic? Aug 4, 2020 A carbon tax's externality is catastrophic climate change, and a plastic tax's is runaway pollution. That is the cost society faces. Faculty: Christopher Knittel Source: HealthDay | 07/15/2020 Will COVID pandemic's environmental benefit last? Jul 15, 2020 Jing Li says: "..there is a real threat to the adoption of clean technology, which could outweigh any 'silver lining' in environmental benefits." Faculty: Jing Li Christopher Knittel Source: WBZ-TV (Video) Race an important factor in determining who dies from COVID-19 Jun 16, 2020 We controlled for that share of the population that has health insurance, diabetes, smoking, obesity..its got to be something that's not that." Faculty: Christopher Knittel Source: STAT To understand who's dying of Covid-19, look to social factors like race ... Jun 15, 2020 If I were a public official, I'd be looking at differences in the quality of insurance, ... chronic stress, and systemic discrimination. Faculty: Christopher Knittel Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
