Nathaniel Gregory | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nathaniel Gregory Support Staff Ann Johnston (617) 715-4178 ajohns@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-625 ngregory@mit.edu (617) 324-7312 Title Senior Lecturer, Finance About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Nat Gregory is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Before joining MIT Sloan School of Management in the fall of 2013, Nat Gregory was Clinical Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, where he taught from 2005-2013.Prior to Chicago Booth, he was chairman and CEO of NATCO Group, Inc., a NYSE oilfield equipment and services company. Previously, Gregory held various positions in investment banking, including general partner in mergers and acquisitions at Lazard Freres & Co in the 1980s. For a number of years he was a managing director at a private equity firm, Capricorn Holdings. Gregory serves or has served on several boards of directors, including OCI Partners, Rotech Healthcare, Plainfield Direct, NATCO Group, Mrs. Fields Cookies and Marine Drilling. In the early 1980s, he was chief economist and a vp, financial services at Bechtel Group, a privately owned engineering contractor based in San Francisco. Prior to Bechtel and before graduate school, he had been a foreign affairs analyst and speechwriter at the Congressional Research Service in Washington, DC.Gregory holds a master's degree in American government from Georgetown University and a master's degree in public policy from the University of Chicago. He earned his PhD in economics at the University of Chicago in 1980, with concentrations in the fields of mathematical economics and law and economics. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
