S.P. Kothari | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty S.P. Kothari linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-662 kothari@mit.edu (617) 253-0994 (617) 253-0603 http://web.mit.edu/kothari/www Title Gordon Y Billard Professor of Accounting and Finance Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy S.P. Kothari is theGordon Y Billard Professor of Accounting and Financeat the Sloan School of Management.Previously, he served as global head of equity research for Barclays Global Investors (BGI), responsible for research supporting BGIs active equity strategies, from 2008-09. The actively managed equity portfolio had in excess of $100 billion in assets, and the research team was comprised of approximately 50 PhDs based in San Francisco, London, and Sydney.Earlier,Kothari was Head of the Department of Economics, Finance, and Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management. This department included approximately 75 professors and lecturers and an administrative staff.Kotharis highly cited research focuses on financial reporting and valuation, asset allocation, explaining the diversity in international accounting practices, use of employee stock options for compensating executives and accounting for stock options, evaluating investment performance, and corporate uses of derivatives for hedging and speculation. The American Accounting Association (AAA) honored his workwith the 2014 Notable Contributions to Accounting Literature Award. For the past 17 years, Kothari has served as an editor of theJournal of Accounting & Economics, a world-renowned academic research journal in accounting. He is an expert on economic policy issues in India and has written numerous opinion-page editorials inThe Economic Times.Kothari has frequently served as a senior consultant with Charles River Associates (www.crai.com), a business-economics and litigation-support consulting firm. He has consulted with many large corporations, including leading U.S. and international banks and asset management companies, Australian television broadcast corporations, U.S. steel companies, E&Y, KPMG, PriceWaterhouse Coopers, and the U.S. Department of Justice. Kothari served on the Board of VVisions (http://vvisions.com/) from 1998-2004 and is currently on the Board of FIA Global (http://www.fiaglobal.com/).Kothari received his BE (Hons.) from the Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani; his MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad; and his PhD from the University of Iowa. He has also received an honorary doctorate, DoctorHonoris Causa, from the University of Technology, Sydney, in May 2013, and a Distinguished Alumnus Award from Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, in 2013. Honors Kothari given Padma Shri Award S.P. Kothari is the recipient of a 2020 Padma Shri Award, one of the highest civilian honors offered by the Government of India for distinguished service in any field. Kotharis Padma Shri Award (the fourth-highest civilian award in the country) is in the field of Literature and Education, and the citation notes his valuable contribution in the fields of finance and academia. Kothari is currently on leave from MIT Sloan, serving since March of last year as Chief Economist and Director of the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Read More Kothari joins SEC S.P. Kothari, the Gordon Y Billard Professor of Accounting and Finance and MIT Sloan former Deputy Dean, has been appointed Chief Economist and Director of the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Read more about his appointment here. Read More American Accounting Association honors S.P. Kothari S.P. Kothari was designated as a 2017 Presidential Scholar by the president of the American Accounting Association (AAA). Kothari delivered a commissioned Presidential Research Lecture as a plenary speaker at the AAAs 2017 annual meeting in San Diego. The Board of Directors of the AAA has requested that The Accounting Review publish his talk, which was entitled "The Governance Role of Accounting Information: Challenges Facing Users, Producers, and Standard Setters, as part of the Presidential Research Lecture series. Read More S.P. Kothari receives honorary doctorate S.P.Kothari has been recognized with an honorary doctorate from the University of Cyprus, which notes his rich scientific and intellectual work and his collaboration with their Faculty of Economics and Management. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "The Effect of Corporate Transparency on Bank Risk-Taking and Banking System Fragility." Jayaraman, Sudarshan, and S.P. Kothari. The Accounting Review. Forthcoming. "Long-Term Impact of Business Cycles on Auditors Judgment." He, Xianjie, S.P. Kothari, Tusheng Xiao, and Luo Zuo. The Accounting Review Vol. 93, No. 6 (2018): 203-229. "Decoding CEO Pay." Pozen, Robert, and S.P. Kothari. Harvard Business Review, July 2017. "Analysts Forecasts and Asset Pricing: A Survey." Kothari, SP, Eric So, and Rodrigo Verdi. Annual Review of Financial Economics Vol. 8, (2016): 197-219. "Cross-Border Financing by the Industrial Sector Increases Competition in the Domestic Banking Sector." Jayaraman, Sudarshan, and S.P. Kothari. The Accounting Review Vol. 91, No. 2 (2016): 535-558. "Managing for the Moment: The Role of Earnings Management via Real Activities versus Accruals in SEO Valuation." Kothari, S.P., Natalie Mizik and Sugata Roychowdhury. The Accounting Review Vol. 91, No. 2 (2016): 559-586. Load More Recent Insights Press S.P. Kothari named to SEC Division of Economic and Risk Analysis S.P. Kothari, Professor of Management and former deputy dean, was appointed chief economist and director of the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Mar 4, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan experts map economy in year one of Trump presidency Major changes to business in 2017, and what to expect as Trump administration heads into its second year. Feb 1, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: India Abroad 3 Indian Americans among Padma Shri award recipients, one to receive Pad... Jan 26, 2020 Faculty: S.P. Kothari Source: MarketWatch Here's one way to tell if a company is overpaying its CEO Apr 8, 2019 Faculty: S.P. Kothari Robert C. Pozen The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
