Phil Budden | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Phil Budden twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Natalia Anna Kalas (617) 253-6621 nresiak@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-486 pbudden@mit.edu (617) 253-6621 Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Phil Budden is a Senior Lecturer at MIT's Management School, in Sloan's TIES (Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Strategic-management) Group, where he focuses on 'innovation-driven entrepreneurship' (IDE) and innovation ecosystems.Phil co-teaches in the successful 'Regional Entrepreneurship Acceleration Program' (REAP), an ExecEd program for regional teams from around the globe interested in accelerating 'innovation-driven entrepreneurship'; in the related 15.364 class, known as the 'Regional Entrepreneurship Acceleration Lab' (REAL), aimed at MBAs and Sloan Fellows; and on similar topics in a variety of degree and ExecEd settings. Phil's approach combines academic, historical and real-world perspectives on how different stakeholders - including Entrepreneurs, Universities and 'Risk Capital' providers, alongside Corporate enterprises and Government policymakers - can all contribute to building successful innovation ecosystems. Phil is currently on leave from the British Government, and joins MIT having worked recently in Boston's private sector for the Royal Bank of Scotland's US subsidiary, Citizens Bank, where he focused on financing transatlantic (especially British-American) trade and investment. His background as a diplomat makes him well-suited to the 'global innovation' of REAP/REAL, the interplay among the REAP teams, and the negotiations within the 'innovation ecosystems' (especially between Corporate and Government stakeholders).In the fall of 2012, while a Visiting Scholar at MIT, Phil had undertaken a project on innovation and entrepreneurship for the British Prime Minister's office at No 10 (and UK Trade and Investment) to inform the UK's Entrepreneurs Campaign. From 2007 until 2012, he had served as the British Consul General to New England, in which role he had been responsible for transatlantic business issues, including trade and investment, corporate/government affairs, as well as science and innovation, leading him to an abiding interest in entrepreneurship. In that time, he also moved the British Consulate to One Broadway (aka e70) to be closer to MIT, Sloan and Kendall Square.Prior to MIT, Phil had joined the British Foreign Office in 1993, and spent his first decade as a diplomat focused on Britain's membership of the European Union (EU), involving its key economic, financial and technology policies. After 9/11, his second decade as a British diplomat was spent in the US: first at the British Embassy in Washington (2002-2007), focused on transatlantic economic and business issues, including technology security, international science and innovation links, and trade policy; and later based in Boston (2007-2012) as Her Britannic Majesty's Consul General to New England.In sum, Phil has held these posts with the British government: British Cabinet Office, London (5/6/2001 - 6/30/2002); British Embassy, Washington DC (7/1/2002 - 8/5/2007); 1st Secretary (UK-US Technology, Science & Innovation) Washington DC; Adviser to the PM at No10 (European/institutional strategy) London, UK.Phil holds a BA and MA in History from Lincoln College, the University of Oxford; an MA in History and Government from Cornell University; and a PhD (DPhil) in History and International Political Economy from the University of Oxford. Publications Featured Publication "An MIT Framework for Innovation Ecosystem Policy: Developing Policies to Support Vibrant Innovation Ecosystems (iEcosystems)." Budden, Phil and Fiona Murray, Working Paper. 2018. "Leading Innovation: Identifying Challenges & Opportunities using MIT's Three Lenses." Budden, Phil, and Fiona Murray, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6214-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2020. "An MIT Approach to Innovation: Eco/systems, Capacities & Stakeholders." Budden, Phil, and Fiona Murray, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6215-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2019. "Defense Innovation Report: Applying MITs Innovation Ecosystem & Stakeholder Approach to Innovation in Defense on a Country-by-Country Basis." Budden, Phil and Fiona Murray, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5875-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2019. "MITs Stakeholder Framework for Building & Accelerating Innovation Ecosystems." Budden, Phil and Fiona Murray, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5874-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2019. "Enhancing Cybersecurity: The Role of Innovation Ecosystems." Budden, Phil and Fiona Murray. Presentation, Cambridge, Massachusetts. February 13, 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Innovation needs an ecosystem to thrive Research shows how, why, and where successful innovation occurs. Jan 4, 2019 Read Article Press MIT Sloan to launch lab courses examining future global business challenges and Bostons innovation ecosystem New NEXT and IDEA Labs expand action-learning options for Executive MBA students Jan 1, 2017 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Project Syndicate (Opinion Piece) Build your own talent magnet Jul 1, 2019 Faculty: William Kenneth Aulet Simon Johnson Shari Loessberg Fiona E. Murray Scott Stern Phil Budden The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
