Lou Shipley | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Lou Shipley Get in Touch shipley@MIT.EDU https://www.loushipley.com Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Lou currently serves as an executive-in-residence at General Catalyst (GC) in Cambridge, MA. Prior to GC, Lou was the president and CEO of Black Duck Software, a GC-backed company acquired by Synopsys in December 2017. Black Duck offers software compliance management solutions that help companies govern how software assets are created, managed, and licensed.Prior to joining Black Duck in 2013, Lou was president and CEO of VMTurbo, Inc., and Reflectent Software (acquired by Citrix Systems in 2006), both of which served the enterprise and financial services industries. After the Reflectent acquisition, Lou served as general manager of the Citrix Management Systems group, and then took on the role of general manager of the Citrix Virtualization and Cloud Products Group. He worked as an entrepreneur-in-residence at Highland Capital Partners in 2002. Prior to Highland, Lou served as vice president of Worldwide Field Operations for WebLine Communications, a customer contact center software company acquired by Cisco Systems. Before WebLine, Lou served as vice president of Americas and Pacific operations at Avid Technology. He joined Avid when the company was a startup and oversaw its growth to over $450 million in revenue. Lou also founded and served as president of Avid Japan KK. Lou serves as chairman of the board of CustomerGauge and is an advisor to Rekener and Spoiler Alert.Lou is also a lecturer at both the prestigious MIT Sloan School of Management and the Harvard Business School, where he instructs, mentors, and coaches the next-generation of tech entrepreneurs and executives on technology sales and sales management, including the course, Technology Sales & Sales Management. He is a frequent writer and commentator on technology and business topics. His work has been published in The Wall Street Journal, The Chicago Tribune, Bloomberg, MarketWatch, and The Huffington Post.Lou holds a BA in economics from Trinity College and an MBA from the Harvard Business School. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan experts on 2019 business trends Brexit, tariffs, human capital, and cybersecurity. Heres what some of MIT Sloans faculty will be following in the new year. Dec 17, 2018 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter What to watch after GDPR's rollout Setting up some unsolvable problems, and the inevitable government versus industry showdown. May 23, 2018 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) How Tesla sets itself apart Feb 28, 2020 Faculty: Lou Shipley Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) How to make your sales forecasts more accurate Aug 28, 2019 Faculty: Lou Shipley Source: Xconomy (Opinion Piece) "FacePalm" bug is a jarring wake-up call. And not just for Apple Apr 2, 2019 Faculty: Lou Shipley Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) UAE hack shows cyber weapons not just a tool for superpowers Feb 16, 2019 Faculty: Lou Shipley Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
