Jared R. Curhan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jared R. Curhan linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-320 curhan@mit.edu (617) 253-5219 (617) 253-2660 http://web.mit.edu/curhan/www/ Title Gordon Kaufman Professor of Management Associate Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Behavioral Research Lab Jared Curhan is the Gordon Kaufman Professor andan Associate Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management, as well as Faculty Director of MITs Behavioral Research Lab.Curhan specializes in the psychology of negotiation and conflict resolution. A recipient of support from the National Science Foundation, he has pioneered a social psychological approach to the study of subjective value in negotiationthat is, the feelings and judgments concerning the instrumental outcome, the process, the self, and the relationship. His research uses theSubjective Value Inventory(SVI; Curhan et al., 2006) to examine the precursors, processes, and long-term consequences of subjective value in negotiation. He also studies the dynamics of negotiation and brainstorming.Curhan is Vice Chair for Research and a member of the Executive Committee of theProgram on Negotiation (PON) at Harvard Law School, a world-renowned inter-university consortium dedicated to developing the theory and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution. He is also Director of thePON Research Laband Director ofMIT's Negotiation for Executives Program.Curhan founded the Program for Young Negotiators, Inc., an organization dedicated to the promotion of negotiation training in primary and secondary schools. His book,Young Negotiators(Houghton Mifflin, 1998) is acclaimed in the fields of negotiation andeducation,and has been translated into Spanish, Hebrew, and Arabic. It has been used to train more than 35,000 children across the United States and abroad to achieve their goals without the use of violence.Deeply committed to education at all levels, Curhan has received the Stanford University Lieberman Fellowship for excellence in teaching and university service, as well as MIT's Institute-wide teaching award, MIT Teaching with Technology Award, and MIT Sloan's Jamieson Prize for excellence in teaching. His three-day crash course,Negotiation Analysis, is open to all MIT students via lottery. He also offers a 10-week, open-enrollment online course with live negotiations, Mastering Negotiation and Influence.Curhan holds an AB in psychology from Harvard University and an MS and aPhDin psychology from Stanford University. Honors Curhan wins digital technology teaching award Jared Curhan has won a 2019 Teaching with Digital Technology Award from MIT for his work in the 15.672 (Negotiation Analysis) class.This student-nominated award recognizes faculty and instructors who have used digital technology to improve teaching and learning for MIT students.Student nominations particularly praised Curhans use of an online platform and interactive application to facilitate and enhance experiential learning in the classroom. The awards are co-sponsored by MIT Open Learning and the Office of the Vice Chancellor. Curhan is the first winner from Sloan for this relatively new award. Read More Jared Curhan received the "Most Influential Article" award Jared Curhan received the "Most Influential Article" award from the Academy of Management (Conflict Management Division) at its 73rd Annual Meeting held in Orlando in early August. The winning paper, entitled "What do people value when they negotiate? Mapping the domain of subjective value in negotiation," is co-authored with Hillary Anger Elfenbein and Curhan's MIT Sloan doctoral student, Alice Xu. Read More Jared Curhan received the "Best Theoretical Paper" award Jared Curhan received the "Best Theoretical Paper" award from the International Association for Conflict Management (IACM) at its 23rd Annual Conference held in Boston in late June. The winning paper, entitled "The other edge of the sword: Parallel and divergent effects on objective and subjective value in negotiation," is co-authored with Curhan's MIT Sloan doctoral student, Ashley Brown. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "The Dark Side of Subjective Value in Sequential Negotiations: The Mediating Role of Pride and Anger." Becker, William J., and Jared R. Curhan. Journal of Applied Psychology Vol. 103, No. 1 (2018): 74-87. Featured Publication "The Polarizing Effect of Arousal on Negotiation." Brown, Ashley D,. and Jared R. Curhan. Psychological Science Vol. 24, No. 10 (2013): 1928-1935. "Understanding Social Interpersonal Interaction via Synchronization Templates of Facial Events." Rui Li, Jared R. Curhan, and Mohammed Ehsan Hoque. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-18), New Orleans, LA: February 2018. "On the Relative Importance of Individual-level Characteristics and Dyadic Interaction Effects in Negotiations: Variance Partitioning Evidence from a Twins Study." Elfenbein, Hillary Anger, Noah Eisenkraft, Jared R. Curhan, and Lisabeth F. DiLalla. Journal of Applied Psychology Vol. 103, No. 1 (2018): 88-96. "The Internet as Negotiation Laboratory: Lessons for Conducting Negotiation Research with Crowdsourced Participants." Lukas Neville, Jared R. Curhan, and N. Kumar. In Proceedings of the 29th Annual Meeting of the International Association for Conflict Management, New York, NY: July 2016. "When Criticism Enhances Creativity in Brainstorming: The Moderating Role of Group Purpose." Jared R. Curhan and Aditi Mehta. In Proceedings of the 76th Academy of Management Annual Meeting, edited by Guclu Atinc, Anaheim, CA: January 2016. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Revisiting a classic negotiation framework Insights into attitudinal restructuring and intra-organizational negotiations still hold the key to positive outcomes. Aug 21, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Attracting superstar talent without going bankrupt Theres more to building a competitive compensation package than cold hard cash. Apr 11, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Fortune How A.I. is poised to transform negotiations. Eye on A.I. Sep 3, 2019 Faculty: Jared R. Curhan Source: Fast Company All the things you're doing wrong in negotiations Sep 10, 2018 Faculty: Jared R. Curhan Source: Fast Company Ask yourself these seven questions when preparing for a negotiation Aug 28, 2018 Faculty: Jared R. Curhan Source: Fast Company - Leadership Now Actually, do let them see you sweat: The science behind why sweating bef... Nov 14, 2013 Faculty: Jared R. Curhan Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
