Paul Osterman | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Paul Osterman curriculum vitae Support Staff Dylan Girard (617) 715-4850 dgirard@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-336 osterman@mit.edu (617) 253-2667 (617) 253-2660 http://web.mit.edu/osterman/www Title Nanyang Technological University Professor Professor of Human Resources and Management Co-Director, MIT Sloan Institute for Work and Employment Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Institute for Work and Employment Research Good Companies, Good Jobs Paul Osterman is the Nanyang Technological University (NTU) Professor of Human Resources and Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management as well as a member of the Department of Urban Planning at MIT. From July 2003 to June 2007 he also served as Deputy Dean at the MIT Sloan School.His research concerns changes in work organization within companies, career patterns and processes within firms, economic development, urban poverty, and public policy surrounding skills training and employment programs.Osterman has been a senior administrator of job training programs for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has consulted widely for government agencies, foundations, community groups, firms, and public interest organizations.His most recent book is Who Will Care For Us: Long Term Care and the Long Term Workforce (Russell Sage,2017). Other recent books include Good Jobs America: Making Work Better for Everyone(Russell Sage, 2011); The Truth About Middle Managers: Who They Are, How They Work, How They Matter(Harvard Business School Press, 2009);Gathering Power: The Future of Progressive Politics in America(Beacon Press, 2003),;Securing Prosperity: The American Labor Market: How It Has Changed and What to Do About It(Princeton University Press, 1999), andWorking In America: A Blueprint for the New Labor Market(MIT Press, 2001).Osterman is also the author ofEmployment Futures: Reorganization, Dislocation, and Public Policy; Getting Started: The Youth Labor Market;The Mutual Gains Enterprise: Forging a Winning Partnership Among Labor, Management, and Government; andChange At Work. He is the editor of two books,Internal Labor MarketsandBroken Ladders: Managerial Careers in the New Economy. In addition, he has written numerous academic journal articles and policy issue papers on topics such as labor market policy, the organization of work within firms, careers, job training programs, economic development, and anti-poverty programs. Honors Paul Osterman named Visiting Scholar Paul Osterman has been awarded a Visiting Scholar position at the Russell Sage Foundation in 2014-15. The Russell Sage Foundation was established in 1907 for "the improvement of social and living conditions in the United States." The Foundation now dedicates itself exclusively to strengthening the methods, data, and theoretical core of the social sciences as a means of diagnosing social problems and improving social policies. The Russell Sage Foundation invites Visiting Scholars to its New York headquarters to investigate topics in social and behavioral sciences; this work constitutes an important part of the Foundation's ongoing effort to analyze the shifting nature of social and economic life in the United States. Read More Publications Featured Publication Who Will Care For Us? Long-Term Care and the Long-Term Workforce. Osterman, Paul. New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation, 2017. Featured Publication "In Search of the High Road: Meaning and Evidence." Osterman, Paul. ILR Review Vol. 71, No. 1 (2018): 3-34. Creating Good Jobs: An Industry-Based Strategy. Osterman, Paul (Ed.). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2020. "Skill Demands and Mismatch in U.S. Manufacturing." Weaver, Andrew, and Paul Osterman. Industrial and Labor Relations Review Vol. 70, No. 2 (2017): 275-307. "Organizing For Good Jobs: Recent Developments And New Challenges." Bernhardt, Annette, and Paul Osterman. Work and Occupations Vol. 44, No. 1 (2017): 89-112. "Employers and Community Colleges: What is the Connection and What Explains It." Weaver, Andrew, and Paul Osterman. Industrial Relations, December 2016. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter An industry-by-industry strategy for better jobs A forthcoming book takes on low-wage work and maps plans for improvement. Sep 9, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Get ready for the low-wage worker revolution As hourly employees find their voice, and one another, smart business leaders are keeping an ear close to the ground. May 24, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Boston Review Six labor policies we need now Sep 4, 2020 "...we are seeing in many of our students a new determination to help shape a fairer, more equitable, and sustainable business world. Faculty: Erin Kelly Emilio J. Castilla Thomas Kochan Barbara Dyer Paul Osterman Nathan Wilmers Source: Newsweek (Opinion Piece) If hospitals and supermarkets are the new frontline, we need a new GI bi... Apr 27, 2020 Paul Osterman writes: "After WWII, America expressed its gratitude to returning veterans by supporting their education. Faculty: Paul Osterman Source: The Aspen Institute (Opinion Piece) Giving a voice and support to American workers Apr 15, 2020 MIT Sloan's Barbara Dyer & Thomas Kochan: "We have only begun to see the devastating effects of COVID-19 on people's lives and livelihoods." Faculty: Barbara Dyer Thomas Kochan Paul Osterman Source: Brookings Institution (Report) Employment and training for mature adults: The current system and moving... Nov 13, 2019 Faculty: Paul Osterman Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
