Charles Senteio | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Charles Senteio Get in Touch Building E62 csenteio@mit.edu Title Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Visiting Assistant Professor 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Charles Senteio is an MIT MLK Visiting Scholar for the 2020-2021 academic year. He is a health informatics researcher focused on improving chronic disease outcomes for underserved populations. Senteio is an Assistant Professor at the Rutgers School of Communication and Information in the Department of Library and Information Science.His community-based research endeavors to address persistent healthcare disparities. His funded investigations of several chronic conditions include: HIV/STIs, diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and breast and prostate cancer. He has led research projects based in Flint, Ypsilanti, Detroit, Dallas, and central New Jersey. Senteio is particularly interested in using both existing technology (i.e., smartphones, tablets) and emerging technology (i.e. machine learning) to support underserved patients, which include formerly incarcerated, underrepresented in research, and low-SES urban populations.He received a PhD in health informatics from the School of Information at the University of Michigan where he also completed a Masters in Social Work (MSW). He began his IT strategy consulting career in the high-tech industry with Booz Allen Hamilton, then Accenture, after receiving an MBA from the Ross School of Business at Michigan. He started a consulting practice in 2002 in Dallas to concentrate exclusively on healthcare. During that time, he supervised and trained community health workers in his work with Project Access in Dallas and with Baylor University Hospital in Dallas. He is a licensed clinical social worker (LCSW), certified health education specialist (CHES) and certified community health worker instructor (CHW-I #115). Media Highlights Source: FocusTechnica MIT hosts seven distinguished MLK Professors and Scholars for 2020-21 Sep 2, 2020 Visiting scholar Charles Senteio will collaborate to expand on his community health informatics research and investigate health equity barriers. Faculty: Charles Senteio The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
