Michael Whinston | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Michael Whinston curriculum vitae Support Staff Emily Fairbanks (617) 253-8959 manninge@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-514 whinston@mit.edu (617) 258-8408 Title Sloan Fellows Professor of Management Professor of Economics and Management MIT Sloan Applied Economics Group and MIT Department of Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Michael D. Whinston is the Sloan Fellows Professor of Managementin the Applied Economics Group at MIT Sloan and Professor of Economics in the Economics Department.Whinston was the Robert E. and Emily H. King Professor of Business Instutions in the Department of Economics, Northwestern University from 1998-2013. Previously, he was a Professor of Economics at Harvard University.He is an electedFellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a Fellow of the Econometric Society. He was also a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences, and an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow from 1990-1992. Whinston was awarded the Compass Lexicon Prize in 2008.His research has covered a variety of topics in microeconomics and industrial organization, including firm behavior in oligopolistic markets, antitrust, game theory, the design of contracts and organizations,law and economics, and most recently, health economics.Whinston is a coauthor of the leading graduate textbook in microeconomics, Microeconomic Theory [Oxford University Press, 1995], and is the author of Lectures on Antitrust Economics [The MIT Press, 2006].Most recentlyhe co-authored Microeconomics [McGraw-Hill, 2007; second edition 2013], an intermediate microeconomics text.He has served as a coeditor of the RAND Journal of Economics, the leading journal in industrial organization, and is currently on the editorial board of the American Economic Journals: Microeconomics.Whinston receiveda BS in economics and anMBA in finance from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, anda PhD in economics from MIT.http://economics.mit.edu/faculty/whinston Honors Whinston wins ACE Best Paper Award Mike Whinston has won the 2019 Best Paper Award from the Association of Competition Economics (ACE).This award recognizes the best paper published on antitrust and consumer protection in the previous year in an economic journal. Whinston'swinning paper, co-authored with Gregory S. Crawford (University of Zurich), Robin S. Lee (Harvard), and Ali Yurukoglu (Stanford), is entitled The Welfare Effects of Vertical Integration in Multichannel Television Markets (Econometrica, 86(3), 891-954, May 2018). Read More Mike Whinston awarded Frisch Medal Mike Whinston has won the 2016 Frisch Medal for his 2015 paper (co-authored with Ben Handel, UC Berkeley, and Igal Hendel, Northwestern), Equilibria in Health Exchanges: Adverse Selection Versus Reclassification Risk. The Frisch Medal, given every two years by the Econometric Society, recognizes the best applied paper(empirical or theoretical) published in Econometrica during the past five years. Read More Mike Whinston named Distinguished Fellow Mike Whinston has received the Industrial Organization Society Distinguished Fellow Award, which is given annually in recognition of excellence in research, education, and leadership in the field of Industrial Organization. Read More Mike Whinston wins Robert F. Lanzilliotti Prize Mike Whinston has won the 2014 Robert F. Lanzillotti Prize for Best Paper in Antitrust Economics sponsored by the Industrial Organization Society. The winning paper, Internal Vs. External Growth in Industries with Scale Economies: A Computational Model of Optimal Merger Policy, is co-authored with Ben Mermelstein, a PhD student at Northwestern; Volker Nocke of Mannheim University; and Mark Satterthwaite of Northwestern. Read More Publications "A Multi-Risk SIR Model with Optimally Targeted Lockdown." Acemoglu, Daron, Victor Chernozhukov, Ivan Werming, and Michael Whinston, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6102-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "Concentration Screens for Horizontal Mergers." Nocke, Volker and Michael D. Whinston, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6027-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "Internal Versus External Growth in Industries with Scale Economies: A Computational Model of Optimal Merger Policy." Mermelstein, Ben, Volker Nocke, Mark A. Satterthwaite, Michael D. Whinston. Journal of Political Economy Vol. 128, No. 1 (2020): 301-341. "Chapter 2: Electroluxs Attempted Acquisition of GEs Appliance Business: U.S. v. AB Electrolux and General Electric." Thompson, T. Scott, and Michael Whinston. In The Antitrust Revolution: Economics, Competition, and Policy, 7th Edition, edited by John E. Kwoka and Lawrence J. White, Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2018. "The Welfare Effects of Vertical Integration in Multichannel Television Markets." Crawford, Gregory S., Robin S. Lee, Michael D. Whinston, and Ali Yurukoglu. Econometrica Vol. 86, No. 3 (2018): 891-954. Appendix. Download Paper. "Property Rights and the Efficiency of Bargaining." Segal, Ilya, and Michael D. Whinston. Journal of the European Economic Association Vol. 14, No. 6 (2016): 12871328. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How an age-based reopening could save lives MIT economists recommend older Americans stay home during COVID-19 pandemic while younger adults return to work sooner. Jun 9, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The Boston Globe Saving lives or saving the economy? Reopening doesn't have to be an all-... May 13, 2020 [Prof. Michael] Whinston says With the right kinds of policies, the choices don't have to be so grim. Faculty: Michael Whinston Source: The Wall Street Journal Targeted lockdowns are better May 4, 2020 The researchers compared strict lockdowns that treat all age groups the same with a more targeted strategy that protects the old. Faculty: Ivan Werning Michael Whinston Daron Acemoglu The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
