Michael D. Siegel | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Michael D. Siegel curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building E94-1567 msiegel@mit.edu (617) 253-2937 (617) 452-3231 Title Director, Cybersecurity at MIT Sloan and Principal Research Scientist 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Cybersecurity at MIT Sloan Michael Siegel is a Principal Research Scientist at the MIT Sloan School of Management and is currently the Co-Director of the PROductivity from Information Technology (PROFIT) Project. Siegels research interests include the integration and use of information from multiple and the use of modeling and data analytics to analyze complex systems.His work has been published in areas including the use of information technology in financial risk management and global financial systems, cybersecurity, applications of computation social science to analyze state stability, digital business, financial account aggregation, healthcare information systems, heterogeneous database systems, managing data semantics, query optimization, intelligent database systems, and learning in database systems.He received his BS in engineering from Trinity College (1977), an MS in engineering from the Solar Energy Laboratory at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (1980), and an MA and PhD in computer science from Boston University (1989). Publications SSRN Featured Publication "Systematically Understanding the Cyber Attack Business: A Survey." Huang, Keman, Michael Siegel, and Stuart Madnick. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) Vol. 51, No. 4 (2018): 1-36. Featured Publication "Chapter 4: Fixing a Hole: The Labor Market for Bugs." Ellis, Ryan, Keman Huang, Michael Siegel, Katie Moussouris, and James Houghton. In New Solutions for Cybersecurity, edited by Alex Pentland, David L. Shrier, and Howard Shrobe, 129-159. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2018. "Decision-Making and Biases in Cybersecurity Capability Development: Evidence from a Simulation Game Experiment." Jalali, Mohammad, Michael Siegel, and Stuart Madnick. The Journal of Strategic Information Systems Vol. 28, No. 1 (2019): 66-82. Download Paper. "An Economic Analysis of Policies for the Protection and Reuse of Noncopyrightable Database Contents." Zhu, Hongwei, Stuart E. Madnick and Michael D. Siegel. Journal of Management Information Systems Vol. 25, No. 1 (2008): 199-232. "Enabling Global Price Comparison with Semantic Integration of Web Data." Zhu, Hongwei, Stuart E. Madnick and Michael D. Siegel. International Journal of Electronic Business Vol. 6, No. 4 (2008): 319-341. "The House of Security: Stakeholder Perceptions of Security Assessment and Importance." Ang, Wee Horng, Vicki Deng, Yang Lee, Stuart E. Madnick, Dinsha Mistree, Michael Siegel, Diane Strong, Richard Wang. FSTC Innovator: The Journal for Financial Services Technology Leaders Vol. 1, No. 1 (2007): 19-24. Load More Media Highlights Source: Medium | The Innovator Interview of the Week: Mike Siegel Nov 21, 2019 Faculty: Michael D. Siegel Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Casting the dark web in a new light Jul 15, 2019 Faculty: Stuart Madnick Michael D. Siegel Staff: Keman Huang Source: Stay Safe Online Industry and government experts discuss incident response at NCSA and Na... Apr 19, 2019 Faculty: Michael D. Siegel The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
