Irving Wladawsky-Berger | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Irving Wladawsky-Berger Get in Touch Building E40-237 irving@irvingwb.com (203) 856-4915 http://irvingwb.com/ Title Visiting Lecturer, Information Technology 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence Irving Wladawsky-Berger is a Visiting Lecturer in Information Technology at the MIT Sloan School of Management. After a 37-year career with IBM, Wladawsky-Berger retired from the company in May of 2007. At IBM, his primary focus was on innovation and technical strategy. He was responsible for identifying emerging technologies and marketplace developments critical to the future of the IT industry and for organizing appropriate activities in and outside IBM in order to capitalize on them. Wladawsky-Berger led a number of IBMs companywide initiatives, including the Internet and e-business, supercomputing, Linux, and Grid computing. He continues to consult for IBM on major new market strategies like Cloud Computing and Smart Planet. In March of 2008, Wladawsky-Berger joined Citigroup as a strategic advisor, helping with innovation and technology initiatives across the company. He is helping to formulate Citigroup initiatives related to the future of global banking, including mobile banking, Internet-based financial services, and financial systems modeling and analysis. Wladawsky-Berger is an adjunct professor in the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Group at the Imperial College Business School and a Senior Fellow at the Levin Institute of the State University of New York. He is a member of the InnoCentive Advisory Board, the Spencer Trask Collaborative Innovations Board, the Board of Directors of the Federation of American Scientists, the Visiting Committee for the Physical Sciences Division at the University of Chicago, and the Board of Visitors of the Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences at the University of Texas at Austin. Wladawsky-Berger was co-chair of the Presidents Information Technology Advisory Committee, as well as a founding member of the Computer Sciences and Telecommunications Board of the National Research Council. He is a former member of the University of Chicago Board of Governors for Argonne National Laboratories, of the Board of Overseers for Fermilab, and of BPs Technology Advisory Council. Wladawsky-Berger is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. A native of Cuba, he was named the 2001 Hispanic Engineer of the Year. Wladawsky-Berger holds an MS and a PhD in physics from the University of Chicago. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 18 quotes for business and management from 2019 Top of mind at MIT Sloan this year: The future of work, climate change, digital transformation, and, above all, leadership. Dec 9, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Blockchain for business Cryptocurrency aside, the supply chain is poised to be blockchains breakout application. Just ask Walmart and IBM. Oct 7, 2019 Read Article Media Highlights Source: The Wall Street Journal | CIO Journal (Blog) Building a more resilient, data-driven economy Jun 12, 2020 Irving Wladawsky-Berger writes: "In a resilient economy, power and decision-making should be distributed among a diverse set of stakeholders. Faculty: Irving Wladawsky-Berger Source: The Wall Street Journal | CIO Journal (Opinion Piece) The Internet of Things is changing the world Jan 10, 2020 Faculty: Irving Wladawsky-Berger Source: The Wall Street Journal | CIO Journal (Opinion Piece) The puzzling economic impact of transformative technologies Jan 3, 2020 Faculty: Irving Wladawsky-Berger Staff: Daniel Rock Source: The Wall Street Journal | CIO Journal (Opinion Piece) Can AI help develop and execute a competitive business strategy? Dec 13, 2019 Faculty: Irving Wladawsky-Berger Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
