Kirk Arnold | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Kirk Arnold Get in Touch Building E60-140 karnold@mit.edu (781) 541-5910 Title Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Kirk Arnold is an experienced CEOand board member,with a demonstrated history of leadership in the technology industry. Skilled instrategy,sales, customer relationship management, and operations, Kirk has a passion fortechnologiesthattransformbusinesses and markets.Currently, Kirk is actively engaged as an advisor, board member and teacher. She is an Executive-in-Residence at General Catalyst Ventures, where she works with management teams to help scale and drive growth. In that capacity, she serves on theBoard of The Predictive Index, the leading provider of talent optimization software. In addition, she is an independent member of the boards of Ingersoll Rand,Trane Technologies, andThomson Reuters Corp.Kirk isinvolved with a number of non-profit organizations, includingthe Massachusetts Technology Leadership Council, where she is a trusteeand member of the Executive Committee,andtheUP Education Network, where she serves on the Board. In addition, she is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and an advisor to the Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship.Kirk spent over 30 years as an executive in the technology industry, most recently as the CEO of Data Intensity, a cloud-based applications and analytics provider. Her prior CEO experience includes CEO and president of Keane, Inc., a publicly traded, billion-dollar global technology company and CEO and founder of NerveWire Inc. In addition, she has held senior leadership positions at Avid, CSC, Fidelity Investments and IBM. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
