Andrew Gordon Sutherland | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Andrew Gordon Sutherland linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-683 AGS1@MIT.EDU (617) 324-3894 Title Ford International Career Development Professor of Accounting Associate Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Andrew Sutherland is theFord International Career Development Professor of Accountingandan Associate Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He studies information asymmetries in commercial lending markets. This work often focuses on entrepreneurs and privately held firms, and examines bank monitoring, bank specialization, auditing, competition, and information sharing technology. He also conducts research on financial misconduct and its role in audit markets, as well as the effects of ethics training on misconduct.Sutherland previously worked as a consultant advising companies throughout the U.S. and Latin America on valuation, investment policy, performance measurement, and executive compensation.He holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from York University, an MBA from Carnegie Mellon University, and a PhD from the University of Chicago. He teaches in the MBA and Master of Finance programs at MIT Sloan. Honors Sutherland wins Best Archival Paper Award Andrew Sutherland has won the Best Archival Paper Award from the American Accounting Associations Auditing Section 2020 Midyear Meeting, for the best conference paper using archival research methods. Sutherlands winning paper, co-authored with Jonathan Cook (Public Company Accounting Oversight Board), Zachary Kowaleski (University of Notre Dame), Michael Minnis (University of ChicagoBooth), and Karla M. Zehms (University of WisconsinMadison), is entitled, Auditors are Known by the Companies They Keep. Read More Andrew Sutherland recognized for Dissertation Andrew Sutherland has received the FARS Best Dissertation Award 2016 from the Financial Accounting and Reporting Section (FARS) of the American Accounting Association (AAA). Andrews winning dissertation is entitled The Economic Consequences of Borrower Information Sharing: Relationship Dynamics and Investment. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Can Ethics be Taught? Evidence from Securities Exams and Investment Adviser Misconduct." Kowaleski, Zachary T., Andrew Sutherland, and Felix W. Vetter. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 138, No. 1 (2020): 159-175. Download Paper. Featured Publication "Economic Growth and Financial Statement Verification." Lisowsky, Petro, Michael Minnis, and Andrew Sutherland. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 55, No. 4 (2017): 745-794. SSRN. "Institutional Investor Attention and Firm Disclosure." Abramova, Inna, John E. Core, and Andrew Sutherland. The Accounting Review No. 95: 6. Forthcoming. SSRN. "Learning about Competitors: Evidence from SME Lending." Darmouni, Olivier and Andrew Sutherland. Review of Financial Studies. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Technology is Changing Lending: Implications for Research (A Discussion of Costello, Down, and Mehta (2020))." Sutherland, Andrew. Journal of Accounting and Economics. Forthcoming. "Regulatory Spillovers in Common Audit Markets." Duguay, Raphael, Michael Minnis, and Andrew Sutherland. Management Science Vol. 66, No. 8 (2020): 3389-3411. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter In financial services, managers as a predictor of fraud A new study of financial advisors finds that middle managers are crucial to understanding the prevalence of misconduct. Sep 28, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Can ethics be taught? New research links changes in an exam to shifts in behavior and awareness of ethical norms. Dec 16, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Conversation (Opinion Piece) Study finds ethics can be taught in finance, at least Jan 27, 2020 Faculty: Andrew Gordon Sutherland Source: Eurasia Review First large-sample evidence of effect of ethics training on financial se... Nov 25, 2019 Faculty: Andrew Gordon Sutherland The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
