Charles Fine | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Charles Fine Support Staff Ariel Brandner (617) 253-6605 abrandne@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-466 charley@mit.edu (617) 253-3632 (617) 258-7579 http://web.mit.edu/ctpid/www/people/Fine.html Title Chrysler Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management Professor of Operations Management and Engineering Systems Co-Director, International Motor Vehicle Program 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management System Dynamics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Charles Fine is the Chrysler Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Managementat the MIT Sloan School of Management. SInce 2015 he has also served as CEO, President, and Dean of the Asia School of Business (in Kuala Lumpur), established in collaboration with MIT Sloan.His research focuses on supply chain strategy and value chain roadmapping, with a particular focus on fast-clockspeed manufacturing industries. Fines work has supported design and improvement of supply chain relationships for companies in electronics, automotive, aerospace, communications, and consumer products. His work has also examined outsourcing dynamics, with a focus on dynamic models for assessing the leverage among the various components in complex industrial value chains and the principles for value chain design, based on strategic and logistical assessments. Most recenlty, he worksin the area of operations strategy for early-stage, entrepreneurial organizations.At MIT Sloan, he has taught Operations Strategy and Supply Chain Management. Fine teaches and consults widely with numerous global clients. He has served on the board of directors for Greenfuel Technologies Corporation, a biotechnology company that he cofounded, which focused on renewable energy. Fine has also served for 17 years as codirector of an executive education program, Driving Strategic Innovation, which is a joint venture between MIT Sloan and IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland.Fine is the author of Clockspeed: Winning Industry Control in the Age of Temporary Advantage (Perseus Books, 1998) and Faster, Smarter, Greener: The Future of the Car and Urban Mobility (MIT Press, 2017). His work on quality management, flexible manufacturing, supply chain management, and operations strategy has appeared in a variety of publications, including Management Science, Operations Research, Journal of Manufacturing and Operations Management, Production and Operations Management, Annals of Operations Research, Games and Economic Behavior, Sloan Management Review, Supply Chain Management Review, and Interfaces.Fine holds an AB in mathematics and management science from Duke University as well as an MS in operations research and a PhD in business administration from Stanford University. Publications SSRN "Problem Formulation and Solution Mechanisms: A Behavioral Study of Humanitarian Transportation Planning." Gralla, Erica, Jarrod Goentzel and Charles H. Fine. Production and Operations Management. Forthcoming. "Assessing Trade-Offs Among Multiple Objectives for Humanitarian Aid Delivery Using Expert Preferences." Gralla, Erica , Jarrod Goentzel and Charles Fine. Production and Operations Management Vol. 23, No. 6 (2014): 978989. "The Evolutionary Path for Corporate Sustainability Based on the Double Helix Model: The Case of GM Korea from 2002-2009." Fine, Charles H. Korea Business Review Vol. 16, No. 2 (2012): 89-122. "Destination Dynamics: Evolution and Governance of Tourist Destinations." Charles H. Fine and L. Padurean. In Proceedings of 12th International Research Symposium on Service Excellence in Management, Ithaca, NY: June 2011. "Value Network Dynamics in 3G-4G Wireless Communications: A Systems Thinking Approach to Strategic Value Assessment." Pagani, Margherita and Charles H. Fine. Journal of Business Research Vol. 61, No. 11 (2008): 11021112. "Value Chain Design and Three-Dimensional Concurrent Engineering." Fine, Charles H. In Business Eco-Systems: Relationships between large and Small Firms, edited by Ki-Chan Kim, Seoul, South Korea : Federation of Korean Industries, 2006. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter The unintended consequences of automated vehicles Prize-winning research from MIT Sloan warns some locales may be heading for a public transit death spiral with the advent of automated vehicles. Mar 28, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Reducing our reliance on cars: The shifting future of urban transportation We need to start thinking broadly about mobility. Dec 13, 2017 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
