Richard Schmalensee | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Richard Schmalensee curriculum vitae Support Staff Emily Fairbanks (617) 253-8959 manninge@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-525 rschmal@mit.edu (617) 253-2957 (617) 258-6786 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rschmal/ Title Howard W. Johnson Professor of Management, Emeritus Professor, Economics, Emeritus Dean Emeritus 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research MIT's Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change MIT Energy Initiative Richard Schmalensee served as the John C Head III Dean of the MIT Sloan School of Management from 1998 through 2007. He was a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers from 1989 through 1991 and served for 12 years as Director of the MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research.Professor Schmalensee is the author or coauthor of 11 books and more than 120 published articles, and he is co-editor of volumes 1 and 2 of the Handbook of Industrial Organization. His research has centered on industrial organization economics and its application to managerial and public policy issues, with particular emphasis on antitrust, regulatory, energy, and environmental policies. He has served as a consultant to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and numerous private corporations.Professor Schmalensee is a Fellow of the Econometric Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was the 2012 Distinguished Fellow of the Industrial Organization Society. He has served as a member Executive Committee of the American Economic Association and as a Director of the International Securities Exchange and other corporations. He is currently a Director of the National Bureau of Economic Research, and Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors of Resources for the Future. Publications SSRN Featured Publication Matchmakers: The New Economics of Multisided Platforms. Evans, David, and Richard L. Schmalensee. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review Press, 2016. Featured Publication "Lessons Learned from Three Decades of Experience with Cap-and-Trade." Schmalensee, Richard L., and Robert N. Stavins. Review of Environmental Economics and Policy Vol. 11, No. 1 (2017): 59-79. Antitrust Analysis of Platform Markets: Why the Supreme Court Got It Right in American Express. Evans, David S. and Richard Schmalensee. Boston: Competition Policy International, 2019. "The Role of Market Definition in Assessing Anticompetitive Harm in Ohio v. American Express." Evans, David S. and Richard Schmalensee. CPI Antitrust Chronicle, June 2019. "Learning from Thirty Years of Cap & Trade." Schmalensee, Richard and Robert N. Stavins. Resources, May 2019. "Policy Evolution under the Clean Air Act." Schmalensee, Richard and Robert N. Stavins. Journal of Economic Perspectives Vol. 33, No. 4 (2019): 27-50. NBER link. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Will regulating big tech stifle innovation? Short answer: Maybe. But there could be better ways of keeping market power in check. Sep 27, 2018 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Seven 2016 books from MIT Sloan faculty members Platforms, free innovation, millennial communication, and more platforms. Nov 22, 2016 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: London School of Economics - LSE Business Review How leading economists view antitrust in the digital economy Nov 18, 2020 US and European experts discuss internet giants, and Google's dominance of search and operating practices. Faculty: Bengt Holmstrom Richard Schmalensee Daron Acemoglu Source: WNPR-FM | Where We Live After outages and rate hike, frustrations with Eversource reach a boilin... Aug 18, 2020 Prof. Emeritus and former MIT Sloan Dean Richard Schmalensee discusses energy policy on "Where We Live" from Connecticut Public Radio. (38:30) Faculty: Richard Schmalensee Source: Harvard Kennedy School | Belfer Center (Audio) Forecasting an uncertain future: A conversation with Richard Schmalensee Jun 8, 2020 Prof. Emeritus Richard Schmalensee, reflects on his many years working on environmental policy in public service and academia. Faculty: Richard Schmalensee The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
