Gordon Kaufman | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Gordon Kaufman Support Staff Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-559 gkaufman@mit.edu (617) 253-2651 (617) 258-7579 Title Morris A. Adelman Professor of Management, Emeritus Professor, Operations Research and Statistics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Gordon Kaufman is the Morris A. Adelman Professor of Management, Emeritusand a Professor of Statistics at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Kaufman is a petroleum industry expert. His research focuses on primary energy resources, with particular attention to the process of discovering oil and gas. He has a long-standing interest in Bayesian econometrics and multivariate analysis as well as in risk analysis of complex strategic problems. Kaufmans current research interest is how to appraise uncertainties within large systems whose components are logically related in complex wayssuch as global climate change models and their impacts, nuclear reactor fault trees, and Bayesian networkswhen experts provide incomplete information about these uncertainties. Kaufman holds a BS in industrial engineering and electrical engineering from Yale University and an MBA and a DBA from Harvard University. Honors Gordon Kaufman appointed distinguished lecturer Gordon Kaufman has been appointed the 2015 International Association of Mathematical Geosciences (IAMG) Distinguished Lecturer, responsible for giving a series of lectures. Kaufman gave the IAMG Distinguished Lecture at the Associations Annual Conference in New Delhi last fall and has lectured at Stanfords Petroleum Engineering Department and the U.S. Geological Surveys University of Arizona branch. Read More Publications SSRN "Probabilistic Aggregation of Uncertain Geological Resources." Kaufman, Gordon M., Ricardo A. Olea, and R. Faith. Mathematical Geosciences. Forthcoming. "Properties of Successive Sample Moment Estimators." Barouch, E., S. Chow, G. Kaufman, and T. Wright, Working Paper. 1985. "Oil and Gas Discovery Modelled as Sampling Proportional to Random Size." Barouch, E., and G. Kaufman, Working Paper. 1976. "On Sums of Lognormal Random Variables." Barouch, E., and G.M. Kaufman, Working Paper. 1976. "Bayesian Factor Analysis." Kaufman, G., and J. Press, Working Paper. 1973. "Chapter 5: Properties of Sums of Geologic Random Variables." Kaufman, Gordon M. In Handbook of Mathematical Geosciences: Fifty Years of IAMG, edited by B.S. Daya Sagar, Frits Agterberg, and Qiuming Cheng, 105-115. Cham, Switzerland: Springer International Publishing, The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
