Valerie J. Karplus | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Valerie J. Karplus twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Sumaiya Rahman Haddad (617) 253-6679 sumaiyar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-482 vkarplus@MIT.EDU (617) 452-3582 http://vkarplus.com Title Visiting Associate Professor, Global Economics and Management (GEM) 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Valerie J. Karplus is a Visiting Associate Professor in Global Economics and Management (GEM) at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Karplus studies resource and environmental management in firms operating in diverse national and industry contexts, with afocus on the role of institutions andmanagement practices in explaining performance. Karplus is an expert on Chinas energy system, including technology and business model innovation, energy system governance, and the management of air pollution and climate change. She works with a collaborative team of researchersto studythe micro and macro determinants ofclean energy transitionsin emerging markets, with a focus on China and India. She teaches Entrepreneurship without Borders, New Models for Global Business, and is currently developing a new course, together with Professor Chris Warshaw in Political Science,on Global Energy Markets and Policy.Shehas previously worked in the development policy section of the German Federal Foreign Office in Berlin, Germany, as a Robert Bosch Foundation Fellow, and in the biotechnology industry in Beijing, China, as a Luce Scholar. From 2011 to 2015, she directed the MIT-Tsinghua China Energy and Climate Project, a five-year research effort focused on analyzing the design of energy and climate change policy in China, and its domestic and global impacts. She is a faculty affiliate of the MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research, theMIT Energy Initiative,and theMIT Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change.Karplus holds a BS in biochemistry and political science from Yale University and a PhD in engineering systems from MIT.Research interests: Asia; biotechnology; China; climate change; economic modeling; economic development; emerging markets; energy; environmental economics; globalization; international management; political economy; resource management; strategy; sustainability; water Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Institutional Enablers of Energy System Transition: Lessons from Solar PV in Eight African Countries." Lessard, Donald R., Valerie J. Karplus, Ninad Rajpurkar, and Arun Singh. In Achieving Collective Ends with Limited Resources: Africas Struggle to Bridge the Infrastructure Gap, edited by Anne Stafford, Innocent Musonda, and Nuno A. P. Gil, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming. "Co-Benefits of China's Climate Policy for Air Quality and Human Health in China and Transboundary Regions in 2030." Li, Mingwei, Da Zhang, Chiao-Ting Li, Noelle E. Selin, and Valerie J. Karplus. Environmental Research Letters Vol. 14, No. 8 (2019). "Institutional Complementarities: The Origins of Experimentation in Chinas Plug-in Electric Vehicle Industry." Helveston, John, Yanmin Wang, Valerie J. Karplus, and Erica R.H. Fuchs. Research Policy Vol. 48, No. 1 (2019): 206-222. "Integrity of Firm Emissions Reporting in Chinas Early Carbon Markets." Zhang, Da, Qin Zhang, Shaozhou Qi, Jinpeng Huang, Valerie J. Karplus, and Xiliang Zhang. Nature Climate Change Vol. 9, (2019): 164-169. "Air Quality Co-benefits of Carbon Pricing in China." Li, Mingwei, Da Zhang, Chiao-Ting Li, Kathleen M. Mulvaney, Noelle E. Selin, and Valerie J. Karplus. Nature Climate Change Vol. 8, No. 1 (2018): 398-403. Supplement. "Quantifying Coal Power Plant Responses to Tighter SO2 Emissions Standards in China." Karplus, Valerie J., Shuang Zhang, and Douglas Almond. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America Vol. 115, No. 27 (2018): 7004-7009. Download Paper. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
