Henry Donnan Jacoby | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Henry Donnan Jacoby Support Staff Fannie Barnes (617) 258-8618 fbarnes@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E19-429H hjacoby@mit.edu (617) 253-6609 (617) 253-9845 Title William F. Pounds Professor of Management Emeritus Professor, Applied Economics, Emeritus Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research Henry D. Jacoby is the William F. Pounds Professor of Management, Emeritus in the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and former Co-Director of the M.I.T. Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change, which is focused on the integration of the natural and social sciences and policy analysis in application to the threat of global climate change. An undergraduate mechanical engineer at the University of Texas at Austin, he holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Harvard University where he also served on the faculties of the Department of Economics and the Kennedy School of Government.He has been Director of the Harvard Environmental Systems Program, Director of the MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research, Associate Director of the MIT Energy Laboratory, and Chair of the MIT Faculty. He currently serves on a U.S. National Academies Committee to Advise the U.S. Global Change Research Program, and an Academies Committee on Assessing Approaches to Updating the Social Cost of Carbon. Honors Jacoby Earns Honorary Doctorate The University of Geneva is recognizing Henry Jake Jacoby with an honorary doctorate. He was proposed by the Universitys School of Economics and Management, to honor his contributions in the area of climate change and in thanks for his strong ties with the Schools project in this area, related tothe integration ofnatural and social sciences in policy analysisof the climate threat. The degree will be conferred in the fall of 2019. Read More Publications SSRN "Climate-Related Financial Disclosures: The Use of Scenarios." Erik Landry, Louis Carranza, James R. Gomes, Henry Jacoby, Donald Lessard, Sergey Paltsev, and Bethany Patten. Cambridge, MA: November 2019. "Informing Transparency in the Paris Agreement: The Role of Economic Models." Jacoby, Henry D., Y. -H. Chen, and Brian Flannery. Climate Policy Vol. 17, No. 7 (2017): 873-890. "Modeling U.S. Water Resources Under Climate Change." Blanc, Elodie, Kenneth Strzepek, Adam Schlosser, Henry Jacoby, Arthur Gueneau, Charles Fant, Sebastian Rausch, and John Reilly. Earth's Future Vol. 2, No. 4 (2014): 197-224. Download Paper. "Chapter 5: The Future of the (U.S.) Electric Grid." Jacoby, Henry D., John Kassakian, and Richard L. Schmalensee. In Handbook on Energy and Climate Change, edited by Roger Fouquet, 125-139. Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar, 2013. "The Influence of Shale Gas on U.S. Energy and Environmental Policy." Jacoby, Henry D., F. OSullivan and S. Paltsev. Economics of Energy and Environmental Policy Vol. 1, No. 1 (2011): 37-52. "The Future of U.S. Natural Gas Production, Use, and Trade." Paltsev, S., Henry D. Jacoby, J. Reilly, Q. Ejaz, J. Morris, F. OSullivan, S. Rausch, N. Winchester and O. Kraga. Energy Policy Vol. 39, No. 9 (2011): 5309-5321. Load More Media Highlights Source: Yale Climate Connections (Opinion Piece) Inaction on the climate threat is NOT an option Oct 30, 2020 "...there is much to fix...to promote recovery from the human and economic damages caused by the coronavirus and our responses to it." Faculty: Henry Donnan Jacoby Source: Yale Climate Connections (Opinion Piece) Multiple extreme climate events can combine to produce catastrophic dama... Oct 9, 2020 "Over time, the weather eventually becomes more favorable. Unfortunately, the climate is not going to change back to what used to be." Faculty: Henry Donnan Jacoby Source: Yale Climate Connections (Opinion Piece) The evidence is compelling on human activity as the principal cause of g... Sep 25, 2020 ...it's overwhelmingly human activities in particular combustion of fossil fuels that can explain observed global temperature increases." Faculty: Henry Donnan Jacoby Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) The Trump administration cooks the climate change numbers once again Jul 19, 2020 Henry Jacoby and co-authors write: "Ignoring the science to cook the numbers discredits the federal process for public decision-making." Faculty: Henry Donnan Jacoby Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
