Fiona E. Murray | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Fiona E. Murray twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Kimberly McGrath (617) 253-3681 mcgrathk@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-488 fmurray@mit.edu (617) 258-0628 (617) 253-2660 http://web.mit.edu/fmurray/www/ Title William Porter Professor of Entrepreneurship Associate Dean for Innovation and Inclusion Co-Director, MIT Innovation Initiative Faculty Director, Legatum Center Member of the UK Prime Minister's Council for Science and Technology (CST) 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press 04.Events About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Legatum Center for Development and Entrepreneurship Fiona Murray is the Associate Dean for Innovation and Inclusion at the MIT Sloan School of Management, the William Porter (1967) Professor of Entrepreneurship, and an associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research.She is also the co-director of MITs Innovation Initiative.She serves on the British Prime Ministers Council on Science and Technology and has been awarded a CBE for her services to innovation and entrepreneurship in the UK.Murray is an international expert on the transformation of investments in scientific and technical innovation into innovation-based entrepreneurship that drives jobs, wealth creation, and regional prosperity. She has a special interest in the commercialization of science from idea to impact and the mechanisms that can be effectively used to link universities with entrepreneurs, large corporations, and philanthropists in that process.Through her leadership role in the MIT Regional Entrepreneurship Acceleration Program, Murray engages many global regions in designing and evaluating the policies and programs that shape vibrant innovation ecosystems: prizes competitions, accelerators, and proof of concept funding programs. She is particularly interested in new organizational arrangements for the effective commercialization of science, including public-private partnerships and patient capital/venture philanthropy.In her recent scholarship and writing, Murray has emphasized the ways in which women and under-represented minorities are engaged in innovation ecosystem, and the ways in which different approaches to evaluating early-stage ideas can overcome the unconscious bias that she has documented in entrepreneurial funding. Her work is widely published in a range of journals, includingScience, Nature, New England Journal of Medicine, Nature Biotechnology, American Journal of Sociology, Research Policy, Organization Science,and theJournal of Economic Behavior & Organization.She brings her deep appreciation of R&D to an understanding of global innovation economy and to the ways in which the next generation of global innovators should be educated. She teaches IDEA Week (Innovation-driven Entrepreneurial Advantage) to the MIT Sloan Executive MBAs and recently started the REAL course Regional Entrepreneurial Acceleration Lab which gives students practical and academic insights into the design and development of innovation ecosystems around the world. These courses encourage cross-campus collaborations that move scientific discoveries closer towards marketable products and allow for students from different stakeholder perspectives to understand the broader ecosystem. She also has a particular interest in the entrepreneurial education of scientists and engineers, and in the role of women in entrepreneurship.Murray received her BA 89 and MA 90 from the University of Oxford in Chemistry. She subsequently moved to the United States and earned an AM 92 andPhD96 from Harvard University in applied sciences. Honors Fiona Murray named Commander of the Order of the British Empire Fiona Murray has been honored with a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) award for her contributions to innovation and entrepreneurship as part of the Queen of Englands Diplomatic Service and Overseas New Year 2015 Honours List, which recognizes Britons for their exceptional service to Britain overseas. Read More Fiona Murray has won the Davis Conference on Qualitative Research 2008 Best Paper Award Fiona Murray's winning paper is titled "Trading in the shadow of the market: An analysis of layman-scientist exchange relationships in genetics." Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Entrepreneurial Attraction: Investors Prefer Entrepreneurial Ventures Pitched By Attractive Men." Brooks, Alison Wood, Laura Huang, Sarah Wood Kearney and Fiona Murray. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science Vol. 111, No. 12 (2014): 44274431. Featured Publication "Developing Successful Strategic Partnerships with Universities." Frlund, Lars, Fiona Murray, and Max Riedel. MIT Sloan Management Review, January 2018. "Entrepreneurship and Innovation at MIT: Continuing Global Growth and ImpactAn Updated Report." Roberts, Edward B., Fiona E. Murray, and J. Daniel Kim. Foundations and Trends in Entrepreneurship Vol. 15, No. 1 (2019): 1-55. "Standing on the Shoulders of Scotchmer: The Empirical Economics of Cumulative Innovation." Furman, Jeffrey M., Fiona E. Murray, Scott Stern, and Heidi Williams. In On the Shoulders of Giants, edited by Stephen M. Maurer, 350-357. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2017. "Open Badges: A Low-Cost Toolkit for Measuring Team Communication and Dynamics." Oren Lederman, Dan Calacci, Angus MacMullen, Daniel C. Fehder, Fiona E. Murray, and Alex Pentland. In 2016 International Conference on Social Computing, Behavioral-Cultural Modeling, & Prediction and Behavior Representation in Modeling and Simulation, Washington D.C.: July 2017. "An exploration of collaborative scientific production at MIT through spatial organization and institutional affiliation." Claudel, Matthew, Emanuele Massaro, Paolo Santi, Fiona Murray, and Carlo Ratti. PloS one Vol. 12, No. 6 (2017): e0179334. . Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter In Boston, a lack of access for minority entrepreneurs From venture capital to city contracts, opportunity is limited for minority-owned enterprises in Boston. Oct 26, 2020 Read Article Press Social justice leader Malia Lazu joins MIT Sloan to accelerate ecosystem inclusion in the innovation economy The former executive vice president and regional president at Berkshire Bank joins Associate Deans Fiona Murray and Ray Reagans in creating a series of community conversations. Sep 18, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) What a crisis teaches us about innovation Nov 30, 2020 "Understanding why its easier to develop new ideas and drive change during an emergency can help leaders innovate...in the absence of a crisis." Faculty: Fiona E. Murray Elsbeth Johnson Source: INSEAD | Knowledge Can Zoom be a tool for teaching anti-racism? Aug 19, 2020 In recent years, we have been heartened to see DEI [diversity, equity and inclusion] being gradually institutionalized within business academia. Faculty: Erin Kelly Kara Blackburn Fiona E. Murray Ray Reagans Source: WTNH-TV (Video) New COVID-19 modeling data predicts numbers in Connecticut into August, ... Jun 10, 2020 Now we know that this is happening clearly we have to update our models. We'll probably know in the next few weeks. says [Prof.] Fiona Murray Faculty: Fiona E. Murray Source: WBUR On Point (Audio) The need for innovation, especially in a crisis Apr 24, 2020 ... the entire community here at MIT... really rallied to COVID-19 and this need for crisis innovation with such passion and purpose." Faculty: Fiona E. Murray Load More Events Mar 11 The Inclusive Innovation Economy: Ideas + Actions Online Learn More See All Events The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
