Pierre Azoulay | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Pierre Azoulay twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Natalia Anna Kalas (617) 253-6621 nresiak@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-487 pazoulay@mit.edu (617) 258-9766 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/pazoulay/ Title International Programs Professor of Management Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Pierre Azoulay is theInternational Programs Professor of Managementat the MIT Sloan School of Management,and a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research.His current research focuses on empirical studies of the supply of biomedical innovators, particularly at the interface of academia and the biopharmaceutical industry. He also is interested in the topic of academic entrepreneurship, having recently concluded a major study of the antecedents and consequences of academic patenting. In the past, he has investigated the impact of superstar researchers on the research productivity of their colleagues, and the outsourcing strategies of pharmaceutical firms, in particular the role played by contract research organizations in the clinical trials process.At MIT Sloan, he teaches courses on competitive strategy and innovation strategy to the EMBA students and Sloan Fellows, as well as a PhD class on the economics of ideas, innovation, and entrepreneurship.He holds a Diplme dtudes Suprieures de Gestion from the Institut National des Tlcommunications, an MA from Michigan State University, and a PhD in management from MIT. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Age and High-Growth Entrepreneurship." Azoulay, Pierre, Benjamin Jones, Daniel Kim, and Javier Miranda. American Economic Review: Insights Vol. 2, No. 1 (2020): 65-82. Download Paper. Featured Publication "Immigration and Entrepreneurship in the United States." Azoulay, Pierre, Benjamin Jones, J. Daniel Kim, and Javier Miranda, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6169-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, September 2020. Also NBER Working Paper #27778. "Beat COVID-19 Through Innovation." Azoulay, Pierre and Benjamin Jones. Science, May 8, 2020. "Self-Citation, Cumulative Advantage, and Gender Inequality in Science." Azoulay, Pierre, and Freda B. Lynn. Sociological Science Vol. 7, (2020): 152-186. Download Paper. "Inside Job or Deep Impact? Using Extramural Citations to Assess Economic Scholarship." Angrist, Joshua, Pierre Azoulay, Glenn Ellison, Ryan Hill, and Susan Feng Lu. Journal of Economic Literature Vol. 58, No. 1 (2020): 3-52. NBER Working Paper #23698. "Scientific Grant Funding." Azoulay, Pierre, and Danielle Li, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5927-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, March 2020. Also NBER Working Paper #26889. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Why restrictive immigration may be bad for U.S. entrepreneurship A new study finds immigrants are more likely to start a company than their U.S.-born counterparts. Sep 17, 2020 Read Article MIT Sloan Experts How to accelerate scientific innovation and end the COVID-19 pandemic Based on prior research on life-science breakthroughs, the government should espouse two broad principles for orchestrating innovation activities dedicated to bringing the pandemic to an end. Aug 3, 2020 Read More Load More Media Highlights Source: Kellogg Insight Immigrants to the U.S. create more jobs than they take Oct 5, 2020 A new study looks at how immigration shapes the economy, analyzing immigrants' contributions as both employees and founders. Faculty: Pierre Azoulay Source: Quartz (India) Immigrant entrepreneurs create more jobs than their American counterpart... Sep 9, 2020 According to a July 2020 study, authored by Pierre Azoulay and others, immigrants are 80% more likely to be entrepreneurs than natives in the US. Faculty: Pierre Azoulay The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
