Nelson P. Repenning | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nelson P. Repenning Support Staff Dawn Mackenzie (617) 324-4292 damack@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E60-380 nelson@mit.edu (617) 258-6889 (617) 258-7579 Title School of Management Distinguished Professor of System Dynamics and Organization Studies Associate Dean of Leadership and Special Projects 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups System Dynamics Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Leadership Center Nelson P. Repenning is the Associate Dean of Leadership and Special Projects, the Faculty Director of the MIT Leadership Center, and the School of Management Distinguished Professor of System Dynamics and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His early work focused on understanding the inability of organizations to leverage well-established tools and practices. He has worked extensively with organizations trying to develop new capabilities in both manufacturing and new product development. Nelson has also studied the failure to use the safety practices that often lead to industrial accidents and has helped investigate several major incidents. This line of research has been recognized with several awards, including best paper recognition from both theCalifornia Management Reviewand theJournal of Product Innovation Management.Building on his earlier work, Nelson now focuses on developing the theory and practice of Dynamic Work Designa new approach to designing work that is both effective and engagingand Dynamic Management Systems, a method for insuring that day-to-day work is tightly linked to the strategic objectives of the firm. He is also a partner at ShiftGear Work Design and serves as its chief social scientist.In 2003, Nelson received the International System Dynamics Societys Jay Wright Forrester Award, which recognizes the best work in the field in the previous five years. In 2011 he received the Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching.He holds a BA in economics from Colorado College and a PhD in operations management and system dynamics from MIT. Publications SSRN "In-Hospital Delays Result in Worse Patient Outcomes and Higher Cost after Cardiac Surgery." Somlo, Diane R.M., Nelson P. Repenning, and Abeel A. Mangi. The Annals of Thoracic Surgery Vol. 106, No. 4 (2018): 1143-1149. "Breaking Logjams in Knowledge Work." Dodge, Sheila, Don Kieffer, and Nelson P. Repenning. MIT Sloan Management Review, September 2018. "Pull for Knowledge Work." Dodge, Sheila, Timothy De Smet, James Meldrim, Niall Lennon, Danielle Perrin, Steve Ferriera, Zachary Leber, Dennis Friedrich, Stacey Gabriel, Eric S. Lander, Don Kieffer, and Nelson Repenning, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5380-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2018. "Making the Numbers? 'Short Termism' and the Puzzle of Only Occasional Disasters." Rahmandad, Hazhir, Nelson Repenning, and Rebecca Henderson. Management Science Vol. 64, No. 3 (2018): 1328-1347. Online Appendix. Download Paper. "A New Approach to Designing Work." Repenning, Nelson P., Don Kieffer, and James Repenning. MIT Sloan Management Review, December 2017. "Agile for Everyone Else: Using Triggers and Checks to Create Agility Outside of Software Development." Repenning, James, Don Keifer, and Nelson Repenning, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5198-17. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2017. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 ways to avoid ineffective meetings The benefits of frequent, purposeful meetings in times of uncertainty and rapid change. Jun 17, 2020 Read Article MIT Sloan Experts 3 things great leaders are doing right now The current health emergency is laying bare problems of cultural intransigence, narrowmindedness, and inflexibility at organizations around the world. May 29, 2020 Read More Load More Media Highlights Source: MIT Sloan Management Review Twelve essential leadership insights Jul 31, 2019 Faculty: Nelson P. Repenning Donald Kieffer Duncan Simester Staff: Allyson MacDonald Source: The New York Times Teaching executives the Formula One way Nov 23, 2018 Faculty: Nelson P. Repenning Ben Shields The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
