Paul McDonagh-Smith | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Paul McDonagh-Smith curriculum vitae Get in Touch paul_mcdonaghsmith@sloan.mit.edu Title Senior Lecturer, IT and Executive Education About Academic Groups Information Technology Academic Area Management Science Paul McDonagh-Smith is a Senior Lecturer in Information Technology at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is the Faculty Director and teaches in MIT Sloans, Digital Learning Strategy and Algorithmic Business Thinking: Hacking Code to Create Value programs.McDonagh-Smith is also the MIT Sloan Office of Executive Education Digital Capability Leader. In this role, he directs the growing portfolio of digital programs; works with the MIT Sloan team to define digital strategy and drives transformative technology experimentation.In his work, Paul studies the intersection between technology and learning to invent and embed next generation platforms and experiences that fit how organizations and employees work in todays digital society.His recent innovations include harnessing artificial intelligence and machine learning, augmented, virtual realities and avatar-based virtual worlds, robotics and collaboration technologies to build and take to market a series of digital teaching and learning products and solutions. Paul specializes in translating and converting the computer and data science value of todays transformative technology into clear and measurable business value for teams and organizationsThrough close collaboration with Faculty, Labs and Schools across MIT, as well as an extensive global network of industry partners, Pauls approach to entrepreneurship is built upon a bias to practical action. More technology presentist than futurist, Paul specializes in enabling teams to invent their future, starting today.He provides digital learning and technology strategy guidance to organizations across multiple industries and geographies as well as a range of international government departments.Prior to MIT, Paul held senior roles in human resources, r&d, emerging products & technology, engineering and global services functions during a 20-year career in the telecoms industry. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
