Trish Cotter | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Trish Cotter Get in Touch Building E40-160 pcotter@mit.edu (617) 253-3453 https://trishcotter.com/ Title Senior Lecturer in Entrepreneurship 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Trish Cotter is a Senior Lecturer and Executive Director of the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship. Trish is also Entrepreneur-in-Residence at MIT and Director of delta v - a capstone program for MIT Entrepreneurship. Trish mentors students through the accelerator process for their start-up ventures and was awarded the 2018 Monosson Prize for Entrepreneurship Mentoring.Trish was previously an executive at two emerging companies which she helped to bring public (Netezza in 2007 and Visual Networks in 1998). When Netezza was acquired by IBM for $1.8 billion in 2010, Trish served in the role of president of Netezza LLC during the integration process. She has a background in engineering, and has held various engineering and management positions at Honeywell, Computervision, Sun Microsystems, and Stratus.Trish holds a BA in business administration from Boston College, an MBA from Northeastern University, an AMP from Harvard Business School, and an MEd and EdD from the University of Pennsylvania. For her doctorate, Trish focused on work-based learning and closing the 21st century skills gap. You can follow Trishs blog at www.trishcotter.com. Recent Insights Press Results of first self-awareness program for entrepreneurs announced Entrepreneurial Confidence and Communication Program made significant impact on student founders Dec 10, 2019 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece Passion for your startup doesn't have to mean constant stress May 11, 2020 Trish Cotter and co-author Kathleen Stetson (MBA '14) write: "What if compromising yourself for your startup isn't necessary for success?" Faculty: Trish Cotter Source: Thrive Global (Opinion Piece) Why we need to redefine start-up culture with positive mental health hab... Jan 10, 2020 Faculty: Trish Cotter Source: Xconomy (Opinion Piece) The entrepreneurial potential of cannabis Jul 24, 2019 Faculty: Trish Cotter Source: Xconomy (Opinion Piece) Necessity vs. innovation-based entrepreneurs Nov 26, 2018 Faculty: Trish Cotter The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
