David G. Rand | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty David G. Rand twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Katie Means (617) 324-4253 kmeans@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-539 drand@mit.edu (607) 592-0218 http://davidrand-cooperation.com/ Title Erwin H. Schell Professor Associate Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Applied Cooperation Team David Rand is the Erwin H. Schell Professor and an Associate Professor of Management Science and Brain and Cognitive Sciences at MIT Sloan, and the Director of the Human Cooperation Laboratory and the Applied Cooperation Team.Bridging the fields of behavioral economics and psychology, Davids research combines mathematical/computational models with human behavioral experiments and online/field studies to understand human behavior. His work uses a cognitive science perspective grounded in the tension between more intuitive versus deliberative modes of decision-making, and explores topics such as cooperation/prosociality, punishment/condemnation, perceived accuracy of false or misleading news stories, political preferences, and the dynamics of social media platform behavior. His work has been published in peer-reviewed journals such Nature, Science, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, the American Economic Review, Psychological Science, and Management Science. He has received widespread attention from print, radio, TV and social media outlets, and has also written popular press articles for outlets including the New York Times, Wired, New Scientist, and the APS Observer. He was named to Wired magazines The Smart List 2012: 50 people who will change the world, chosen as a 2012 Pop!Tech Science Fellow, received the 2015 Arthur Greer Memorial Prize for Outstanding Scholarly Research, and was selected as fact-checking researcher of the year in 2017 by the Poytner Institutes International Fact-Checking Network. Papers he has coauthored have been awarded Best Paper of the Year in Experimental Economics, Social Cognition, and Political Methodology.David received his BA in Computational Biology from Cornell University in 2004 and his PhD in Systems Biology from Harvard University in 2009, was a post-doctoral researcher in Harvard Universitys Department of Psychology from 2009 to 2013, and was an Assistant and then Associate Professor of Psychology, Economics, and Management at Yale University prior to joining the faculty at MIT. Honors David Rand wins two awards David Rand has won the 2020 Federation of Associations in Behavioral & Brain Sciences (FABBS) Early Career Impact Award of the Society for Judgment and Decision Making (SJDM). This award recognizes early-career scientists of FABBS member societies who have made major research contributions to the sciences of mind, brain, and behavior, especially those whose outstanding research contributions are accompanied by outreach activities that increase public awareness of science. Second, Rand is a winner of the inaugural AMA-EBSCO Annual Award for Responsible Research in Marketing from the American Marketing Association, with financial support from EBSCO and in partnership with the Sheth Foundation and Responsible Research in Business & Management network. The award honors outstanding research that produces both credible and useful knowledge that can be applied to benefit society. Rands nominated paper for the award, co-authored with Gordon T. Kraft-Todd (Yale), Bryan Bollinger (Duke Fuqua School of Business), Kenneth Gillingham (Yale School of Management), and Stefan Lamp (Toulouse School of Economics), is entitled Credibility-enhancing displays promote the provision of non-normative public goods (Nature 563, 245-248 (2018). The paper was deemed to exemplify the Seven Principles of Responsible Research, in support of better marketing for a better world. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Fighting COVID-19 Misinformation on Social Media: Experimental Evidence for a Scalable Accuracy Nudge Intervention." Pennycook, Gordon, Jonathan McPhetres, Yunhao Zhang, Jackson G. Lu, and David G. Rand. Psychological Science Vol. 31, No. 7 (2020): 770-780. Download Paper. Featured Publication "The Implied Truth Effect: Attaching Warnings to a Subset of Fake News Headlines Increases Perceived Accuracy of Headlines Without Warnings." Pennycook, Gordon, Adam Bear, Evan Collins, and David G. Rand. Management Science. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Are Those Who Believe in God Actually More Prosocial?" Stagnaro, Michael, Antonio Arechar, and David G. Rand. Religion, Brain, and Behavior. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Invisible Inequality Leads to Punishing the Poor and Rewarding the Rich." Hauser, Oliver P., Gordon T. Kraft-Todd, David G. Rand, and Martin A. Nowak. Behavioral Public Policy. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Machine Learning as a Tool for Principled Investigation of Experimental Moderators: A Case Study Using In-Group Favoritism Caused by Pokmon Go." Peysakhovich, Alexander and David G. Rand. Scientific Reports. Forthcoming. "Practice What You Preach: Credibility-enhancing Displays and the Growth of Open Science." Kraft-Todd, Gordon, and David G. Rand. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. Forthcoming. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A checklist for COVID-19 public health messaging Useful coronavirus public health messages are clear and concise, emphasize the public good, and create the impression that others expect compliance. May 8, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: ABC News Why millions don't trust the election results, despite no evidence of wi... Nov 22, 2020 "...if you ask people to stop and think about is this true, most people are actually pretty good at telling...fake news from true news." Faculty: David G. Rand Source: Quartz The risk of putting warning labels on election misinformation Nov 2, 2020 "...most stuff doesn't get labeled, so that's a major practical limitation of this approach. Faculty: David G. Rand Source: ZDNet People's notions about AI are terrible, an MIT study asks whether they c... Sep 18, 2020 "Participants who anthropomorphized the AI more assigned less proportional credit to the artist." Faculty: David G. Rand Source: Medium | One Zero Facebooks antiviral for Covid-19 posts Aug 14, 2020 Facebook rolled out something close to what David Rand suggested to limit the spread of Covid-related misinformation. Faculty: David G. Rand Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
