Jackson G. Lu | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jackson G. Lu linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Patty Charest (617) 253-5701 pcharest@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-322 lu18@mit.edu https://www.jacksonlu.net Title Mitsui Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Jackson Lu is the Mitsui Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management. In 2019, he was named one of the 40 Best Business School Professors Under 40 by Poets and Quants. Jacksons research focuses on culture and globalization (e.g., multilingualism, multicultural identities, multicultural experiences, multicultural relationships, multicultural networks, multicultural teams). His research has been published in premier scientific journals (e.g.,Academy of Management Annals, Journal of Applied Psychology,Journal of Personality andSocial Psychology,Nature: Human Behaviour,Organizational Behavior and HumanDecision Processes,Proceedings of NationalAcademy of Sciences, Psychological Science), and featured in major media outlets (e.g., BBC, The Economist, Financial Times, Harvard Business Review, NPR, The Boston Globe, The Washington Post). Lu received his BA from Williams College (summa cum laude) and his PhD from Columbia Business School. Honors Lu wins Outstanding Dissertation Award Jackson Lu has won the 2019 Alvah H. Chapman Jr. Outstanding Dissertation Award from the Center for Leadership at Florida International University, in partnership with the Network of Leadership Scholars.This award recognizes a dissertations outstanding contribution to the field of leadership. As the award recipient, Lu will deliver an invited presentation at the Leadership Research Colloquium at the FIU Center for Leadership in 2020. Lus winning dissertation is entitled Global Leader or Cultural Outsider? The Divergent Effects of International Experiences on Leadership Effectiveness vs. Leadership Selection (abstract since currently under embargo until April additional information about his dissertation is included in this article). Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "The Bamboo Ceiling: Why East Asians but not South Asians are Underrepresented in Leadership Positions in the United States." Lu, Jackson G., Richard E. Nisbett, and Michael W. Morris. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 117, No. 9 (2020): 4590-4600. Featured Publication "Disentangling Stereotypes from Social Reality: Astrological Stereotypes and Discrimination in China." Lu, Jackson G., Xin Liu, Hui Liao, and Lei Wang. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. Forthcoming. "Multicultural Experiences: A Systematic Review and New Theoretical Framework." Maddux, William W., Jackson G. Lu, Salvatore Affinito, and Adam D. Galinsky. Academy of Management Annals. Forthcoming. "Polluted Psyche: Is the Effect of Air Pollution on Unethical Behavior More Physiological or Psychological?" Gong, Shiyang, Jackson G. Lu , John M. Schaubroeck, Qian Li, Qiwei Zhou, and Xiaoye Qian. Psychological Science Vol. 31, No. 8 (2020): 1040-1047. "Fighting COVID-19 Misinformation on Social Media: Experimental Evidence for a Scalable Accuracy-Nudge Intervention." Pennycook, Gordon, Jonathan McPhetres, Yunhao Zhang, Jackson G. Lu, and David G. Rand. Psychological Science Vol. 31, No. 7 (2020): 770-780. "Air Pollution: A Systematic Review of Its Psychological, Economic, and Social Effects." Lu, Jackson G. Current Opinion in Psychology Vol. 32, (2020): 52-65. Load More Recent Insights Press Stereotypes about astrological signs lead to discrimination in China Virgos are discriminated against in dating and job recruitment in China Oct 1, 2020 Read Article Press Why Chinese Americans are underrepresented in leadership positions For the first time, researchers rigorously examined the scope and root causes of the Bamboo Ceiling. Feb 17, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Economist The bamboo ceiling: Indian v Chinese bosses in America Inc Feb 29, 2020 Faculty: Jackson G. Lu Source: Medium | Environment Air pollution's comeback is double trouble, especially for children Jan 27, 2020 Faculty: Jackson G. Lu Source: Poets & Quants All the new faculty at the top 25 schools Sep 11, 2019 Faculty: Jackson G. Lu Basima Tewfik Abdullah Almaatouq Daniel Freund Jacquelyn Pless The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
