Sandy Pentland | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Sandy Pentland Get in Touch Building E15-387 pentland@MIT.EDU (617) 253-3818 Title Toshiba Professor of Media Arts & Science Professor, Information Technology 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Academic Area Management Science Alex `SandyPentlanddirects MITs Human Dynamics Laboratory and the MIT Media Lab Entrepreneurship Program, co-leads the World Economic Forum Big Data and Personal Data initiatives, and is a founding member of the Advisory Boards for Nissan, Motorola Mobility, Telefonica, and a variety of start-up firms. He has previously helped create and direct MITs Media Laboratory, the Media Lab Asia laboratories at the Indian Institutes of Technology, and Strong Hospitals Center for Future Health. In 2012 Forbes named Sandy one of the `seven most powerful data scientists in the world, along with Google founders and the CTO of the United States, and in 2013 he won the McKinsey Award from Harvard Business Review.He is among themost-citedcomputational scientists in the world, and a pioneer incomputational social science,organizational engineering,wearable computing(Google Glass),image understanding, and modern biometrics. His research has been featured in Nature, Science, and Harvard Business Review, as well as being the focus of TV features on BBC World, Discover and Science channels.His most recent book is `Honest Signals,' published by MIT Press. Over the years Sandy has advised more than 50 PhD students. Almost half are now tenured faculty at leading institutions, with another one-quarter leading industry research groups and a final quarter founders of their own companies. Sandy's research group and entrepreneurship program have spun off more than 30 companies to date, three of which are publicly listed and several that serve millions of poor in Africa and South Asia. Recent spin-offs have been featured in publications such as the Economist and the New York Times, as well as winning a variety of prizes from international development organizations. Publications Google Scholar "Dynamic Networks Improve Remote Decision-Making." Almaatouq, Abdullah and Alex Pentland. Sloan Management Review, June 2020. "Adaptive Social Networks Promote the Wisdom of Crowds." Almaatouq, Abdullah, Alejandro Noriega-Campero, Abdulrahman Alotaibi, P.M. Krafft, Mehdi Moussaid, and Alex Pentland. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 117, No. 21 (2020). "Analysis of Misinformation During the COVID-19 Outbreak in China: Cultural, Social and Political Entanglements." Leng, Yan, Yujia Zhai, Shaojing Sun, Yifei Wu, Jordan Selzer, Sharon Strover, Julia Fensel, Alex Pentland, Ying Ding., MIT Sloan Working Paper 6116-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "Winning Models for GPA, Grit, and Layoff in the Fragile Families Challenge." Rigobon, Daniel E., Eaman Jahani, Yoshihiko Suhara, Khaled AlGhoneim, Abdulaziz Alghunaim, Alex Pentland, and Abdullah Almaatouq. Socius: Sociological Research for a Dynamic World Vol. 5, No. 2378023118 (2019). "Research: You Have Fewer Friends than You Think." Pentland, Sandy. Harvard Business Review, May 2016. "A Voice is Worth a Thousand Words: The iImplications of the Micro-Coding of Social Signals in Speech for Trust Research." Waber, Benjamin, Michele Williams, John S. Carroll and Alex Pentland. In Handbook of Research Methods on Trust, 249-258. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing Limited, 2012. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 6 insights on managing through crisis Work with remote work, facilitate peer-to-peer communication, confront supply chain shortfalls, and more. Jul 27, 2020 Read Article MIT Sloan Experts It is time to build a new economy. Digital data and artificial intelligence can help The COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing economic crisis have revealed many ways in which American society isnt working. Jul 13, 2020 Read More Load More Media Highlights Source: MarketWatch (Opinion Piece) How we can reopen the U.S. economy and keep workers safe without 'Big Br... Apr 30, 2020 "Even as the government remains focused on containing the virus ..., policymakers and business leaders are starting to reopen the economy." Faculty: Sandy Pentland Source: The Wall Street Journal Measuring the effectiveness of coronavirus social distancing policies Apr 10, 2020 The Atlas of Inequality uses aggregated anonymous geolocation data from digital devices to estimate where people in U.S. cities spend their time. Faculty: Sandy Pentland Source: Quartz A pioneer of wearable technology explains how it can connect instead of ... Dec 17, 2019 Faculty: Sandy Pentland Source: BBC (Video) How 'social physics' can improve your neighbourhood Jul 18, 2019 Faculty: Sandy Pentland Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
