Scott Stern | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Scott Stern twitter linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Natalia Anna Kalas (617) 253-6621 nresiak@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-476 sstern@mit.edu (617) 253-3053 (617) 253-2660 Title David Sarnoff Professor of Management of Technology Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Scott Stern is the David Sarnoff Professor of Managementat the MIT Sloan School of Management.Stern explores how innovation and entrepreneurship differ from more traditional economic activities, and the consequences of these differences for strategy and policy. His research in the economics of innovation and entrepreneurship focuses on entrepreneurial strategy, innovation-driven entrepreneurial ecosystems, and innovation policy and management. Recent studies include the impact of clusters on entrepreneurship, the role of institutions in shaping the accumulation of scientific and technical knowledge, and the drivers and consequences of entrepreneurial strategy.Stern has worked widely with practitioners in bridging the gap between academic research and the practice of innovation and entrepreneurship. This includes advising start-ups and other growth firms in the area of entrepreneurial strategy, as well as working with governments and other stakeholders on policy issues related to competitiveness and regional performance. In recent years, Stern has developed a popular new MIT Sloan elective, Entrepreneurial Strategy, co-founded the MIT Regional Entrepreneurship Acceleration Program, advised the development of the Social Progress Index, and served as the lead MIT investigator on the US Cluster Mapping Project.Stern started his career at MIT, where he taught from 1995 to 2001. Before returning to MIT in 2009, he held positions as a Professor at the Kellogg School of Management and as a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. Stern is the director and co-founder of the Innovation Policy Working Group at the National Bureau of Economic Research. In 2005, he was awarded the Kauffman Prize Medal for Distinguished Research in Entrepreneurship.Stern holds a BA in economics from New York University and a PhD in economics from Stanford University.Read more about Scott Stern here. Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Where is Silicon Valley?" Guzman, Jorge and Scott Stern. Science Vol. 347, No. 6222 (2015): 606-609. "Choosing Technology: An Entrepreneurial Strategy Approach." Gans,Joshua S., Michael Kearney, Erin L. Scott, and Scott Stern. Strategy Science. Forthcoming. "The State of American Entrepreneurship: New Evidence on the Quantity and Quality of Entrepreneurship for 34 US States, 1988-2014." Guzman, Jorge, and Scott Stern. American Economic Journal: Policy. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Lean Startup and the Business Model: Experimentation Revisited." Felin, Teppo, Alfonso Gambardella, Scott Stern, and Todd Zenger. Long Range Planning Vol. 53, No. 4 (2020): 101889. Download Paper. "The Impact of State-Level Research and Development Tax Credits on the Quantity and Quality of Entrepreneurship." Fazio, Catherine, Jorge Guzman, and Scott Stern. Economic Development Quarterly Vol. 34, No. 2 (2020): 188-208. Download Paper. "The Economics of Maps." Nagaraj, Abhishek, and Scott Stern. Journal of Economic Perspectives Vol. 34, No. 1 (2020): 196-221. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 2019, illustrated Six illustrations and photos we loved this year. Dec 2, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter State-level R&D tax credits create startups, but not success Tax breaks for research and development mean more innovation and entrepreneurship, but not necessarily better or faster innovation and entrepreneurship. Aug 14, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Forbes (Opinion Piece) New business needs a big rescue, too Apr 24, 2020 "Job creation is, by definition, a net number. We need new businesses...to create economic opportunity..." Faculty: Scott Stern Staff: Jorge Arturo Guzman Source: London School of Economics - LSE Business Review (Opinion Piece) How free trade changes domestic firms' ability to innovate Jan 29, 2020 Faculty: Claudia Steinwender Scott Stern Source: Poets & Quants Meet the most disruptive MBA startups of 2019 Oct 28, 2019 Faculty: Scott Stern Source: BostInno Here are two startup success predictors, according to MIT research Aug 19, 2019 Faculty: Christian Catalini Scott Stern Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
