Cathy Louise Iacobo | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Cathy Louise Iacobo linkedin Get in Touch Building E40-315 iacobo@mit.edu (617) 452-3031 Title Lecturer, Global Economics and Management About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Catherine (Cathy) Iacobo is a Lecturer in the Global Economics and Management Group at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and serves as a faculty mentor for the Global Entrepreneurship Lab (G-Lab), Healthcare Lab (H-Lab), and China/India Lab.Cathy is a global operations executive with 30-plus years of experience that span services, supply chain, engineering, manufacturing, product development, marketing and sales operations, first at IBM and then at LexmarkInternational. Cathy has a track record of building, mentoring, and leading teams that create value for customers and corporate shareholders. She has considerable international experience including managing global services operations and an overseas assignment managing EMEA (Europe/Middle East/Africa) supply chain operations.Cathy has been a dedicated and effective mentor throughout her career. She serves as a volunteer mentor at MITs Venture Mentoring Service (VMS). MITs VMS supports entrepreneurial activity connected to the MIT community, providing guidance and support to young enterprises attempting to bring innovative new products or services to the marketplace.Cathy holds a BS degree in mechanical engineering from Duke University and an MS degree in management of technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
