Walter Torous | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Walter Torous Get in Touch Building 9-312 wtorous@mit.edu (617) 324-7027 Title Senior Lecturer About Walter Torous is a Senior Lecturer holding a joint appointment in the MIT Sloan School of Management and in the MIT Center for Real Estate. As one of the nations's top scholars and researchers in real estate finance,Walter teaches a graduate course in Mortgage Securitization and Other Assets. He has taught at the University of Michigan and at the London School of Business. Walter was the Lee and Seymour Graff Distinguised Professor and is founding director of the UCLAZimon Center for Real Estate. He is also Professor Emeritus at the UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he taught managerial finance, real estate finance, and empirical methods in finance. Walter's research interests include the pricing of financial instruments (options, future, risky debt, mortgages), the reorganization of financially distressed firms, and statistical issues in finance. His consulting clients include a variety of banks and financial institutions. Heis currently the editor of Real Estate Economics, the official publication of AREUEA, and associate editory of the Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics. He previously served as associate editor for the Journal of Housing Economics, the Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, and Economic Notes. Walter holds a BMath in economics from the University of Waterloo and a PhD in economics from the University of Pennsylvania. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
