Birger Wernerfelt | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Birger Wernerfelt curriculum vitae Support Staff Naomi Stephen (617) 324-7328 nstephen@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-532 bwerner@mit.edu (617) 253-7192 (617) 258-7597 http://web.mit.edu/bwerner/www/ Title J.C. Penney Professor of Management Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Birger Wernerfelt is the J.C. Penney Professor of Management and aProfessor of Marketing at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Wernerfelt has held teaching positions and has done research in marketing at MIT Sloan, in economics at the University of Copenhagen, and in strategy at Northwestern University and at the University of Michigan. His current research compares alternative ways of trading services. Wernerfelt holds a BA in philosophy and an MA in economics from the University of Copenhagen and a DBA in managerial economics from Harvard University. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "A Resource-based View of the Firm." Wernerfelt, Birger. Strategic Management Journal Vol. 5, No. 2 (1984): 171-180. Featured Publication Adaptation, Specialization, and the Theory of the Firm: Foundations of the Resource-based View. Wernerfelt, Birger. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 2016. "A Possible Micro-Foundation for the RBV and Its Implications." Wernerfelt, Birger. Strategic Management Review Vol. 1, No. 1 (2020): 145-158. Download Paper. "When Does the Underdog Win?" Wernerfelt, Birger, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6192-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. "How Do Successful Scholars Get Their Best Research Ideas?" Cao, Cathy, Xinyu Cao, Matthew Cashman, Madhav Kumar, Artem Timoshenko, Jeremy Yang, Shuyi Yu, Jerry Zhang, Yuting Zhu, and Birger Wernerfelt. Marketing Letters Vol. 30, No. 3 (2019): 221-232. Download Paper. "Foreword." Wernerfelt, Birger. In Organizational Leadership: New Studies in Strategy, Entrepreneurship, Knowledge, and Methodology, 1-2. Copenhagen, Denmark: Djoef Publishing, 2016. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
