Nemit Shroff | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nemit Shroff curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-679 shroff@mit.edu (617) 324-0805 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/nshroff/ Title School of Management Distinguished Professor Associate Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Nemit Shroff is the School of Management Distinguished Professor and an Associate Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Shroffs primary research interest concerns whether and why accounting disclosures such as audited financial statements, management forecasts, and press releases affect the corporate financing and investing policies of public and private companies. In addition, his research examines the reasons why corporate disclosure is regulated across the world and the economic consequences of regulating (or not regulating) disclosure. His research has been published in top accounting and finance journals and has received several awards, including the 2011 FARS Best Dissertation Award, the 2014 Competitive Manuscript Award, and the 2016 FARS Best Paper Award.Born in India, Shroff earned his undergraduate degree from the University of Mumbai and his MBA from Amrita School of Business. He then came to the U.S. to pursue his doctoral degree at the University of Michigan. Honors Hanlon and Shroff win American Tax Association award Nemit Shroff and Michelle Hanlon have received the 2017 American Tax Association (ATA) Outstanding Manuscript Award. This annual award recognizes a significant contribution to the tax literature published during the three prior calendar years. The winning paper, co-authored with John R. Graham (Duke University Fuqua School of Business professor) and Terry Shevlin (University of California, Irvine Paul Merage School of Business professor), is entitled Incentives for Tax Planning and Avoidance: Evidence from the Field. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "Real Effects of PCAOB International Inspections." Shroff, Nemit. The Accounting Review. Forthcoming. Download Paper. Featured Publication "Why Regulate Private Firm Disclosure and Auditing?" Minnis, Michael, and Nemit Shroff. Accounting and Business Research Vol. 47, No. 5 (2017): 473-502. "The Effects of Financial Reporting and Disclosure on Corporate Investment: A Review." Roychowdhury, Sugata, Nemit Shroff, and Rodrigo Verdi. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 68, No. 2-3 (2019): 101246. Download Paper. "Disclosure Incentives When Competing Firms Have Common Ownership." Park, Jihwon, Jalal Sani, Nemit Shroff, and Hal White. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 67, No. 2-3 (2019): 387-415. Download paper. "When Does the Peer Information Environment Matter?" Shroff, Nemit, Rodrigo Verdi, and Benjamin P. Yost. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 64, No. 2-3 (2017): 183-214. "Tax Rates and Corporate Decision Making." Graham, John, Michelle Hanlon, and Terry Shevlin. Review of Financial Studies Vol. 30, No. 9 (2017): 3128-3175. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan study finds positive impact of auditor regulatory oversight PCAOB inspection facilitates increased investment and capital raising Aug 1, 2017 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Study: Credible auditors help companies raise funds When companys auditor gets OK from regulators, debt and investment rise Sep 17, 2015 Read Article Media Highlights Source: MarketWatch (Opinion Piece) How big institutional shareholders make companies more investor-friendly Mar 6, 2019 Faculty: Nemit Shroff The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
