James M. Utterback | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty James M. Utterback curriculum vitae Support Staff Stephanie Taverna (617) 253-2676 staverna@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-467 jmu@mit.edu (617) 253-2661 (617) 253-2660 Title David J. McGrath jr (1959) Professor of Management and Innovation, Emeritus Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences James Utterback is the David J. McGrath jr (1959) Professor of Management and Innovation, Emeritusand aProfessor of Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Utterback delves into the emergence of dominant product designs and studies how to develop products in keeping with a companys overall strategy. He also probes how to move concepts effectively to market. His book, Mastering the Dynamics of Innovation (Harvard Business School Press, 1994), looks at the creative and destructive effects of technological change on the life of a company.Utterback holds a BS and an MS in industrial engineering from Northwestern University, a PhD in industrial management from MIT, and an ScD from the Chalmers Institute of Technology. Honors Jim Utterback named Fellow of American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS Fellows are recognized by their peers for their scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance science or its applications. This honor recognizes Utterback's "distinguished contributions to the fields of technological and scientific innovation in engineering and industry through his longtime leadership efforts in research, teaching, and technology." The new AAAS Fellows were announced in the journal Science on November 29. Read More Utterback receives 2018 Distinguished Alumni Award Jim Utterback is the recipient of a 2018 Distinguished Alumni Award from the Department of Industrial Engineering & Management Sciences (IEMS) at Northwestern University, in recognition of his accomplishments and distinguished career contributions to the field of entrepreneurship and innovation. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication Mastering the Dynamics of Innovation. Utterback, James M. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1994. Featured Publication Design-Inspired Innovation. Utterback, James M., Bengt-Arne Vedin, Eduardo Alvarez, Sten Ekman, Susan Walsh Sanderson, Bruce Tether and Roberto Verganti. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing, 2006. "The Dynamics of the Diffusion of Innovations in the Transition from Products to Services in the Music Industry." Yilmaz, Erdem, James Utterback and Calie Pistorius, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6054-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2020. "The Dynamics of Competition and of the Diffusion of Innovations." Utterback, James M., Calie Pistorius, and Erdem Yilmaz, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5519-18. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2019. "Technology Cycles." Utterback, James M. In Palgrave Encyclopedia of Strategic Management, edited by David Teece and Mia Augier, London, England : Palgrave Macmillan, 2015. "Radical Innovation from the Confluence of Technologies: Innovation Management Strategies for the Emerging Nanobiotechnology Industry." Maine, Elicia, V. J. Thomas and James M. Utterback. Journal of Engineering and Technology Management Vol. 32, (2014): 1-25. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
