Steven Eppinger | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Steven Eppinger curriculum vitae Support Staff Ariel Brandner (617) 253-6605 abrandne@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-468 eppinger@mit.edu (617) 253-0468 http://web.mit.edu/eppinger/www/ Title General Motors Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management Professor of Management Science and Engineering Systems Co-Director, System Design and Management Program 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence Steven D. Eppinger is the General Motors Leaders for Global Operations Professor, a Professor of Management Science and Engineering Systems, and the Co-Director of the System Design and Management Program at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Eppinger served as deputy dean of MIT Sloan from 2004 to 2009; as faculty co-director of the Leaders for Global Operations (formerly MIT Leaders for Manufacturing) and the System Design and Management programs from 2001 to 2003; and as co-director of the Center for Innovation in Product Development from 1999 to 2001. Prior to joining the MIT faculty in 1988, he worked as a machinist, manufacturing engineer, product designer, and consultant in both prototype and production operations. His research efforts are applied to improving product design and development practices. Conducted within MITs Center for Innovation in Product Development, his work focuses on organizing complex design processes in order to accelerate industrial practices, and has been applied primarily in the automotive, electronics, aerospace, and equipment industries. At MIT Sloan, Eppinger has created an interdisciplinary product development course in which graduate students from engineering, management, and industrial design programs collaborate to develop new products. He also teaches MITs executive programs in the area of product development. In 1993, he received both MITs Graduate Student Council Teaching Award and the MIT Sloan Award for Innovation and Excellence in Management Education. Eppinger has co-authored a widely used textbook entitled, Product Design and Development, Fifth Edition (McGraw-Hill, 2008). The author of more than 40 articles in refereed academic journals and conferences, he received the ASME Best Paper Award in Design Theory and Methodology in 1995 and again in 2001. Eppinger lectures regularly for international corporations and in executive education programs, and has consulted for or conducted research with more than 50 firms. He serves on the Research Advisory Council of the Design Management Institute and on the Advisory Board of Directors of the Society of Concurrent Product Development. Eppinger holds SB, SM, and ScD degrees in mechanical engineering from MIT. Honors Eppinger lectures in Denmark Steve Eppinger was invited to deliver the autumn 2019 Technical University of Denmark rsted Lecture.The aim of the lecture series is to stimulate new thoughts and new scientific approaches by presenting topics that will change our future, with the most advanced and frontier breaking research.This biannual event commemorates the universitys founder, Hans Christian rsted, who discovered electromagnetism. Eppinger joins a distinguished list of invited lecturers who are leading scientists from the fields of science and engineering, including several Nobel laureates. The lecture is available to watch online. Read More Steven Eppinger named distinguished speaker Steven Eppinger has received the 2015 Distinguished Speaker Award from the Technology, Innovation Management, and Entrepreneurship Section (TIMES) of INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences). This award recognizes Eppinger as an outstanding academic leader in the field of technology management. Read More Steven Eppinger wins PICMET Medal of Excellence Steven Eppinger is the recipient of the PICMET Medal of Excellence Award, given by the Portland International Conference on Management of Engineering and Technology (PICMET). This award recognizes extraordinary achievements of individuals in any discipline for their outstanding contributions to science, engineering and technology management. Read More Steven Eppinger recognized for paper Steven Eppinger has been honored with Runner Up for thePOMS (Production and Operations Management Society) Wickham Skinner Award fo rBest Paper published in Production and Operations Management during 2013. The winning paper, "Structuring Work Distribution for Global Product Development Organizations," is co-authored with MIT Sloan PhD graduate Anshuman Tripathy. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication Product Design and Development, 7th Edition. Ulrich, Karl, Steven D. Eppinger, and Maria C. Yang. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education, 2020. Featured Publication Design Structure Matrix Methods and Applications. Eppinger, Steven D. and Tyson R. Browning. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2012. "Technology Readiness Levels: Shortcomings and Improvement Opportunities." Eppinger, Steven, A. Olechowski, N. Joglekar, and K. Tomaschek. Systems Engineering . Forthcoming. "The Structure of Agile Development under Scaled Coordination." Siddharth Bajpai, Steven Eppinger, and Nitin Joglekar. In Proceedings of the 21st International Dependency and Structure Modeling Conference, DSM 2019, edited by Harold (Mike) Stowe, Jintin Tran, Paulo Montijo, Steven Eppinger, and Tyson R. Browning, Monterey, CA: September 2019. Download Paper. "The Structure of DevOps in Product-Service System Development." Rajaram Srinivasan, Steven Eppinger, and Nitin Joglekar. In Proceedings of the Design Society: International Conference on Engineering Design, ICED 2019, Delft, The Netherlands: August 2019. Download Paper. "Design Sprint for Complex System Architecture Analysis." Katja Hltt-Otto, Valtteri Niutanen, Steven Eppinger, Tyson R. Browning, H. Mike Stowe, Riku Lampinen, and Andhikaputra Rahardjo. In ASME Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Design Theory and Methodology, Quebec, Canada: August 2018. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Our top 5 Working Definitions of 2019 Words and ideas that stood out this year. Dec 10, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 10 agile ideas worth sharing Yes, agile is synonymous with software development, but these agile concepts can bolster systems development of all kinds. Jun 20, 2019 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
