Patrick Jaillet | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Patrick Jaillet Get in Touch Building 32-D624 jaillet@mit.edu (617) 452-3379 Title Dugald C. Jackson Professor About Patrick Jaillet holds a joint appointment in the Operations Research and Statistics Group at MIT Sloan and in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science where he is the Dugald C. Jackson Professor. Jaillet is also a member of the Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems at MIT and Codirector of the MIT Operations Research Center as well as the Faculty Director of the MIT-France program. He was Head of Civil and Environmental Engineering at MIT from 2002 to 2009.From 1991 to 2002 Jaillet was a Professor at the University of Texas in Austin, the last five years as the Chair of the Department of Management Science and Information Systems within the McCombs School of Business. He cofounded and was Director of UT Austin's Center for Computational Finance. Before his appointment in Austin, he was a faculty and a member of the Center for Applied Mathematics at the cole Nationale des Ponts et Chausse in Paris. He received a Diplme d'Ingnieur from France (1981), and then came to MIT where he received an SM in Transportation (1982) followed by a PhD in Operations Research (1985).Jaillet's research interests include online optimization and learning, machine learning, and decision making under uncertainty. His research is funded by US federal sources such as NSF, ONR, AFOSR, and internationally by Singapore. His teaching covers subjects such as machine learning; algorithms; mathematical programming; network science and models; and probability. Jaillets consulting activities primarily focus on the development of optimization-based analytic solutions in various industries, including defense, financial, electronic marketplace, and information technology.He was a Fulbright scholar in 1990 and the recipient of many research and teaching awards. Jaillet is a Fellow of the Institute for Operations Research and Management Science Society (INFORMS), a member of the Mathematical Optimization Society (MOS), and a member of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM). He is currently an associate editor for the INFORMS Journal on Optimization, Networks, and Naval Research Logistics. Jaillet was an associate editor for Operations Research from 1994 until 2005 and for Transportation Science from 2002 until 2017. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
