Hazhir Rahmandad | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Hazhir Rahmandad linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Jocelyn Climent (617) 258-5583 jcliment@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-442 HAZHIR@MIT.EDU (617) 258-8912 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/hrahmandad/ Title Schussel Family Professor of Management Science Associate Professor, System Dynamics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups System Dynamics Academic Area Management Science Hazhir Rahmandad is the Schussel Family Professor of Management Science and an Associate Professor of System Dynamics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Hazhir's research shows how complex organizational dynamics can lead to heterogeneity in organizational practices and outcomes. He has analyzed how organizations learn in the presence of delays between taking action and observing the results, and has shown through empirical data and simulations the resulting learning challenges. Hazhir's strategy research has explored the shape of organizational performance landscapes, capability development tradeoffs under competition, and erosion of organizational capabilities through adaptation traps. In another stream of work he has studied public health problems, including obesity and depression dynamics, and comparing different modeling methodologies in application to epidemics, among others. Hazhir also contributes to expanding the dynamic modeling toolbox through advancing parameter estimation and validation methods for dynamic models.Hazhir has published in diverse journals includingManagement Science,Organization Science,Strategic Management Journal, Strategy Science,Journal of Operations Management,International Journal of Obesity,andSystem Dynamics Review, among others. He has been a reviewer for over 30 NIH and NSF panels and over two dozen different journals, and his research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, Department of Housing and Urban Development, and private sector firms.Hazhir holds a BS in industrial engineering from Sharif University of Technology and a PhD in management with system dynamics concentration from MIT. Before joining MIT Sloan in 2015, Hazhir was an Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering at Virginia Tech. Honors Hazhir Rahmandad wins Jay Wright Forrester award Hazhir Rahmandad has won the System Dynamics Societys Jay Wright Forrester Award. This is the top prize in the field, given at most once annually for the best published work in System Dynamics during the previous five years. Rahmandad was recognized for his 2012 paper in Organization Science, entitled Impact of Growth Opportunities and Competition on Firm-Level Capability Development Trade-offs. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "If Higher Pay Is Profitable, Why Is It So Rare? Modeling Competing Strategies in Mass Market Services." Rahmandad, Hazhir, and Zeynep Ton. Organization Science Vol. 31, No. 5 (2020): 1053-1071. Download Paper. Supplementary Materials. Featured Publication "Explaining Heterogeneity in the Organization of Scientific Work." Rahmandad, Hazhir and Keyvan Vakili. Organization Science Vol. 30, No. 6 (2019): 1125-1145. Download Paper. "Estimating COVID-19 Under-Reporting Across 86 Nations: Implications for Projections and Control." Rahmandad, Hazhir, TY Lim, and John Sterman, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6146-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "Weather Conditions and COVID-19 Transmission: Estimates and Projections." Xu, Ran, Hazhir Rahmandad, Marichi Gupta, Catherine DiGennaro, Navid Ghaffarzadegan, and Mohammad Jalali., MIT Sloan Working Paper 6104-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "Simulation-based Estimation of the Early Spread of COVID-19 in Iran: Actual versus Confirmed Cases." Ghaffarzadegan, Navid, and Hazhir Rahmandad. System Dynamics Review Vol. 36, No. 1 (2020): 101-129. "The Evolution of Simulation Modeling in Health Policy: A Review of the Literature." Mohammad Jalali, Catherine DiGennaro, Abby Guitar, Karen Lew, Hazhir Rahmandad, and Donald Burke. In Proceedings of the 41st Annual North American Meeting of the Society for Medical Decision Making, Portland, OR: October 2019. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter COVID-19 cases are 12 times higher than reported New research reveals the true scope of COVID-19s global spread. But dont bank on herd immunity. Jul 2, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Summer forecast for COVID-19: Some relief, but not enough Research finds temperatures above 77 degrees Fahrenheit impede transmission of COVID-19, but not enough to quell the epidemic without other measures. May 26, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) Equality in the U.S. starts with better jobs Aug 17, 2020 "...even in low-cost service settings, paying higher wages and treating workers with respect and dignity can be profit-maximizing." Faculty: Zeynep Ton Hazhir Rahmandad Source: The Boston Globe MIT Sloan study: Summer's heat and humidity not going to stop the corona... May 8, 2020 "The pandemic is not likely to diminish solely due to summer weather, said Hazhir Rahmandad. Faculty: Hazhir Rahmandad Source: The National Interest 916,000 in Iran have coronavirus: Expert Apr 9, 2020 Faculty: Hazhir Rahmandad The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
