Joseph P. Weber | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Joseph P. Weber curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-664 jpweber@mit.edu (617) 253-4310 (617) 253-0603 Title George Maverick Bunker Professor of Management Professor, Accounting 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Joseph Weber is the George Maverick Bunker Professor ofManagement anda Professor of Accounting at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Weber specializes in empirical work on the importance of accounting information in financial contracts. His recent work documents how an innovation in the commercial debt marketperformance pricingallows for more efficient contracting by reducing the expected renegotiation costs of the contract. Webers research has recently appeared in The Accounting Review, the Journal of Accounting Research, and the Journal of Accounting and Economics. When not conducting research, Weber teaches the core financial accounting class to first-year MBA students at MIT Sloan. Prior to entering academia, he worked for Price Waterhouse and AXA Financial.Weber holds a BSBA in accounting from Bucknell University and a PhD in accounting from Pennsylvania State University. Honors Weber wins Seegal Prize Joe Weber is the winner of the 2018 Samuel E. Seegal Faculty Prize , in recognition of his having inspired students in pursuing and achieving excellence. The prizeis awarded to a faculty member for pursuing excellence at either MIT Sloan or the MIT School of Engineering every other year. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Voluntary and Mandatory Disclosures: Do Managers View them as Substitutes?" Noh, Suzie, Eric So, and Joseph P. Weber. Journal of Accounting and Economics Vol. 68, No. 1 (2019): 101243. "Do Strict Regulators Increase the Transparency of Banks?" Costello, Anna M., Joao Granja, and Joseph P. Weber. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 57, No. 3 (2019): 603-637. Download paper. "Do Rating Agencies Benefit from Providing Higher Ratings? Evidence from the Consequences of Municipal Bond Ratings Recalibration." Beatty, Anne, Jacquelyn Gillette, Reining Petacchi, and Joseph Weber. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 49, No. 2 (2019): 323-354. "When and Why do IPO Firms Manage Earnings?" Sletten, Ewa, Yonca Ertimur, Jayanthi Sunder, and Joseph P. Weber. Review of Accounting Studies Vol. 23, No. 3 (2018): 872-906. Download paper. "Direct Evidence on Information Properties of the Earning Measures Used in Debt Contracts." Dyreng, Scott D., Rahul Vashishtha, and Joseph Weber. Journal of Accounting Research Vol. 55, No. 2 (2017): 371-406. "The Impact of Balanced Budget Restrictions on States' Fiscal Actions." Costello, Anna M., Reining Petacchi, and Joseph P. Weber. The Accounting Review Vol. 92, No. 1 (2017): 51-71. Load More Media Highlights Source: The Wall Street Journal The Muni-Bond Mania Jun 4, 2019 Faculty: Jacquelyn R. Gillette Joseph P. Weber The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
