Ross L. Watts | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Ross L. Watts curriculum vitae Support Staff Michael Brockett (617) 258-6550 brockett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-667 rwatts@mit.edu (617) 253-2668 (617) 253-0603 Title Professor, Accounting, Emeritus 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Accounting Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Ross Watts isthe Erwin H. Schell Professor of Management, Emeritus and Professor of Accounting, Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His book Positive Accounting Theory, coauthored with Jerold Zimmerman, continues to be used in accounting PhD programsmore than25 years since its publication. He has published extensively in leading accounting and finance journals. Watts is also a founding editor of the Journal of Accounting & Economics, a leading accounting research journal. Specializing in accounting and corporate governance, Watts investigates the relation between accountings roles in auditing, contracting, firm governance, financing, and financial reporting. Those roles are used to explain accountings methods, including conservatism, and to evaluate both existing accounting standards and those proposed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Watts is a source, in both academic and policy circles, for predictions of likely effects of proposed financial reporting standards. He received the 1978 and 1979 American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Awards (with Jerold Zimmerman) for Notable Contribution to Accounting Literature. The American Accounting Association honored Watts with the Seminal Contributions to Accounting Literature Award in 2004 and the Outstanding Accounting Educator Award in 2000. In 2013, the Financial Accounting Reporting Section of the American Accounting Association recognized him with their inaugural Lifetime Achievement Award. Watts holds a BCom in accounting from the University of Newcastle, Australia and an MBA and a PhD in finance from the University of Chicago. Honors Ross Watts inducted into the Australian Accounting Hall of Fame Ross Watts has been inducted into the Australian Accounting Hall of Fame, which honors and celebrates outstanding academic and practitioner contributions to the advancement of accounting in Australia. Watts is the first expatriate inductee. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Understanding Practice and Institutions: A Historical Perspective." Watts, Ross L., and Luo Zuo. Accounting Horizons Vol. 30, No. 3 (2016): 409-423. "The Effect of Accounting Conservatism on Corporate Investment During the Global Financial Crisis." Balakrishnan, Karthik, Ross Watts, and Luo Zuo. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting Vol. 43, No. 5-6 (2016): 513-542. "Evidence on the use of unverifiable estimates in required goodwill impairment." Ramanna, Karthik and Ross L. Watts. Review of Accounting Studies Vol. 17, No. 4 (2012): 749-780. "Estimation and validation of a firm-year measure of conservatism." Khan, Mozaffar and Ross L. Watts. Journal of Accounting & Economics Vol. 48, No. 2-3 (2009): 132-150. "The information role of conservative financial statements." Watts, Ross L. and Ryan LaFond. Accounting Review Vol. 83, (2008): 447-478. "Asymmetric timeliness of earnings, market-to-book and conservatism in financial reporting." Roychowdhury, Sugata and Ross L. Watts. Journal of Accounting & Economics Vol. 44, No. 1-2 (2007): 2-31. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
