Stuart Krusell | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Stuart Krusell Get in Touch Building E90-9166 skrusell@mit.edu (617) 258-7216 Title Senior Director, Global Programs; Senior Lecturer, Behavioral and Policy Sciences About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences A Senior Director, Stu leads teams responsible for MIT Sloan partnerships in China, Taiwan, and Portugal, and oversees international conferences and the Visiting Fellows Program. Stu is actively engaged in developing new strategies for advancing management education through technology, scale,and innovation while exploring new market opportunities, particularly in Africa and in the Middle East. Stu is also a Senior Lecturer, co-teaching the Executive MBA Global Operations Lab (GO-Lab) class offered within the Global Economics and Management Group.Stu joined MIT Sloan with the Leadership Center after serving in cross-sector senior leadership positions around the globe, focusing on the interaction between government, business, and citizens. He has worked with and trained senior executives, policy makers, and students in economic development, governance, and institution-building in more than a dozen countries, encouraging them to think and lead across internal and external borders. Stu's previous experience includes being the youngest Massachusetts gubernatorial appointee serving as a commissioner, overseeing a $2 billion+ industry, and as an executive director of a non-profit focused on global cultural issues.A graduate of Colby College and the Harvard Kennedy School, Stu teaches international relations and comparative government at Bentley University, and has lectured on leadership and foreign policy at MIT, Brown University, Harvard University, and the University of Massachusetts Boston. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
