Malia C Lazu | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Malia C Lazu Get in Touch Building 7-307 MLAZU@MIT.EDU (617) 252-1380 Title Lecturer, TIES 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Malia Lazu is a Lecturer in the Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Strategic Management Group at the MIT Sloan School of Management.She has sparked deep economic development and investment in urban entrepreneurship for over twenty years. In her current role as EVP, chief experience and culture officer, and regional president at Berkshire Bank, Malia works to generate wealth for communities by expanding access to capital and spurring economic growth especially in communities of color that have traditionally been left behind.In her first nine months at Berkshire, Malia evolved the $13 billion banks strategic focus beyond traditional community banking services to prioritize tangible community impact. She has helped to diversify the board of directors; developed a suite of financial products and programs that support entrepreneurs of color; and launched ReevX Labs, a collaborative workspace and innovation hub for the urban start-up community.A serial entrepreneur in her own right, Malia has launched and led a number of socially responsible business accelerators across Boston. She worked with the city to create Accelerate Boston which helped launch over twenty minority businesses in its first five years, and continues to help minority entrepreneurs raise capital. She was also the founder and president of the Future Boston Alliance, now known as Epicenter, which built an ecosystem of creators, consumers and investors to develop businesses in the creative industries. As a fellow at MITs Community Innovators Lab , she launched The Urban Labs, a multicultural agency helping brands see returns on diversity.Malia began her career as a political organizer and bridge-builder founding Mass VOTE, a state-wide voter engagement campaign. She has led culture-shifting campaigns for the actor and civil rights activist Harry Belafonte, as well as businessmen and philanthropists like Peter Lewis and George Soros.Malia currently sits on the boards of the Boston Chamber of Commerce, Massachusetts Business Roundtable, Revolutionary Spaces, and the Nation Magazine Editorial Board. She was named one of Essence Magazines 50 founders to watch in 2017 and Boston Business Journals Women Who Mean Business in 2019.EXPERTISE Community Banking for High Potential Emerging Markets Innovation, Start-Ups and Urban Development Entrepreneurship and Economic Democracy Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Social Impact and Civic ParticipationCONTACT: Danielle Moodie-Mills, (202) 445-5210 Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How to elevate an inclusive community of entrepreneurs Access matters as much as capital, so its crucial to lift others up along the way. Nov 23, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter In Boston, a lack of access for minority entrepreneurs From venture capital to city contracts, opportunity is limited for minority-owned enterprises in Boston. Oct 26, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Banker & Tradesman (Opinion Piece) Banks can leverage their existing infrastructure to boost equity Nov 22, 2020 The wealth gap is not an outcome based on the failures of an individual or their community but rather of 400 years of systemic exclusion. Faculty: Malia C Lazu Source: WGBH-TV (Video) Mass. political experts weigh in on what's next after election 2020 Nov 6, 2020 We're going to figure out how to work toward and continue to lean in towards justice. Faculty: Malia C Lazu Source: Banker & Tradesman (Opinion Piece) Diversity is not a cost center Oct 25, 2020 banks continue to approach racial diversity and economic inequity as problems to be solved with charity a cost" Faculty: Malia C Lazu Source: American Banker (Opinion Piece) Want diversity? Move beyond your closed network Sep 25, 2020 "A more diverse, talented workforce exposes your company to new people and new ideas...and it can help open new markets. Faculty: Malia C Lazu Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
