William Kenneth Aulet | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty William Kenneth Aulet Support Staff Alicia Carelli (617) 324-7789 carelli@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E40-160 aulet@mit.edu (617) 253-2473 (617) 253-8633 Title Professor of the Practice, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Managing Director, Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Bill Aulet is the Managing Director of the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship and Professor of the Practice at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is changing the way entrepreneurship is understood, taught, and practiced around the world. Bill is an award-winning educator and author whose current work is built off the foundation of his 25-year successful business career first at IBM and then as a three-time serial entrepreneur. During this time, he directly raised over a hundred million dollars and, more importantly, created hundreds of millions of dollars of shareholder value through his companies. Since 2009, he has been responsible for leading the development of entrepreneurship education across MIT at the Martin Trust Center. Bill's first book, Disciplined Entrepreneurship, released in August 2013, has been translated into over 18 languages and has been the content for three online edX courses which have been taken by hundreds of thousands of people in 199 different countries. The accompanying follow-on book, Disciplined Entrepreneurship Workbook, was released in April 2017. Bill has widely published in in places such as the Wall Street Journal, TechCrunch, the Boston Globe, the Sloan Management Review, the Kauffman Foundation, Entrepreneur Magazine, MIT Sloan Experts and more. He has been a featured speaker on shows such as CNBCs Squawk Box, BBC News, Bloomberg News as well as at events and conferences around the world.He has degrees from Harvard and MIT, and is a board member of MITEK Systems (NASDAQ: MITK) and XL Hybrids Inc. (Private). He is also a Visiting Professor at University of Strathclyde (Scotland). On July 1, 2017, Bill was named a Professor of the Practice at MIT Sloan, the first at the school in the area of entrepreneurship since Alex dArbeloff held that title in 2003. For his efforts, Bill has earned external recognition as well including Boston 50 on Fire, 2017 Favorite MBA Professors from Poets and Quants, and 2018 Nannerl Keohane Distinguished Visiting Professorship at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Duke University. Honors Aulet honored for advancing entrepreneurship Bill Aulet has won the 2019 Outstanding Contributions to Advancing Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Higher Education Award from the Deshpande Symposium on Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Higher Education.Co-founded by the Deshpande Foundation and UMass Lowell, the Deshpande Symposium convenes participants from the worlds of academia, policy, and practice to discuss best practices in integrating entrepreneurship throughout their college and university communities. The Awards Committee cited Aulets dedication and commitment to fostering entrepreneurship across higher education not just within MIT but across the world; his fresh thinking; his having helped launch multiple programs at MIT including delta v, Beehive, Hacking Medicine, and several courses, and his having spread the entrepreneurial spirit internationally with his book, videos, and numerous presentations. Read More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan Prof. Edward Roberts receives the GCEC Legacy Award The founder of the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship is recognized for a lifetime of pioneering entrepreneurship. Nov 2, 2020 Read Article Press motorCortex.ai wins MIT $50K Collaborative Intelligence Competition The winning teams autonomous robots disinfect high-traffic spaces. Jun 2, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Les Echos (France) 17 business models pour trouver des sources de revenus Dec 30, 2019 Faculty: William Kenneth Aulet Source: BizEd (Opinion Piece) Teaching entrepreneurship, cultivating antifragility Nov 18, 2019 Faculty: William Kenneth Aulet Source: The Boston Globe Martin Trust, apparel industry entrepreneur and philanthropist, dies at ... Sep 21, 2019 Faculty: William Kenneth Aulet Source: BostInno Meet the founders in this year's MIT delta v startup accelerator Sep 9, 2019 Faculty: William Kenneth Aulet Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
