Egor Matveyev | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Egor Matveyev curriculum vitae Get in Touch Building E62-621 matveyev@mit.edu (617) 258-0879 Title Senior Lecturer and Research Scientist in Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Egor Matveyev is a Senior Lecturer and Research Scientist in Financeat the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research interests are in the fields of corporate finance, organizational economics, and corporate governance. Matveyevs work has studied corporate director labor markets, the impact of management teams and CEOs on firm value and performance, and the challenges investors face in valuing firms investment options. At MIT Sloan, he teaches 15.401 Managerial Finance and 15.434 Advanced Corporate Finance.Matveyev holds an MA in Economics from the New Economic School in Moscow and a PhD in Finance from the University of Rochester.Current Research Focus: Matveyevs current research focus is corporate finance, with a particular interest in the role of top corporate executives in creating firm value and its implications for executive compensation and the design of corporate governance systems. Current research projects include measuring the value of CEOs, allocation of executive skill across firms, and the role of non-pay job characteristics in the executive and director labor markets. Publications SSRN "Optimal Capital Structure with Imperfect Competition." Matveyev, Egor, and Alexei Zhdanov, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5667-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2019. "Good and Bad CEOs." Jenter, Dirk, Egor Matveyev, and Lukas Roth, Working Paper. 2017. "Misvaluation of Investment Options." Lyandres, Evgeny, Egor Matveyev, and Alexei Zhdanov, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5235-17. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2017. "The Labor Market for Corporate Directors." Matveyev, Egor, Working Paper. 2016. "Sorting in the U.S. Corporate Executive Labor Market." Matveyev, Egor, Working Paper. 2016. Recent Insights Press MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance sees record enrollment To date, more than 50,000 participants from 175 countries have enrolled in classes in the program. Sep 1, 2020 Read Article Press Study shows larger nonprofit endowment funds generate higher returns The difference...is mostly due to portfolio allocations. Larger endowments invest in riskier and higher-yielding assets compared to more conservative investments by smaller endowments. May 26, 2020 Read Article Media Highlights Source: MarketWatch Smaller companies aren't necessarily being hurt more than larger ones be... Oct 28, 2020 "A persistent question amid the uncertainty is which companies are best able to withstand the economic headwinds created by the pandemic." Faculty: Egor Matveyev Source: Poets & Quants After months of delay, tens of thousands sign up for new MIT Sloan progr... Sep 2, 2020 The MITx MicroMasters Program in Finance is designed to meet the growing demand for the skills and expertise required for a career in finance. Faculty: Leonid Kogan Egor Matveyev David C. Schmittlein Staff: Heidi Pickett Source: Chronicle of Philanthropy (Opinion Piece) With donations down, nonprofits need to do a better job of managing thei... Aug 4, 2020 "Factors such as size, management, and investment allocation significantly affect how much revenue endowments generate." Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Egor Matveyev Source: MarketWatch (Opinion Piece) Companies with visionary leaders are hurt if the CEO and chairman roles ... Jan 23, 2019 Faculty: Egor Matveyev Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
