Yasheng Huang | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Yasheng Huang curriculum vitae Support Staff Channa Yem (617) 324-7519 channay@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-462 yshuang@mit.edu (617) 253-9768 (617) 253-2660 Title Epoch Foundation Professor of International Management Professor, Global Economics and Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Food Supply Chain Analytics and Sensing Initiative Yasheng Huang is the Epoch Foundation Professor of International Management and Faculty Director of Action Learning at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Between 2013 and 2017, he served as an Associate Dean in charge of MIT Sloans global partnership programs and its action learning initiatives. His previous appointments include faculty positions at the University of Michigan and at Harvard Business School.Huang is currently involved in research projects in four broad areas: 1) a book project titled The Nature of the Chinese State, 2) collaboration with researchers at Tsinghua University to create a complete database on historical technological inventions in China, 3) as a co-PI in Food Safety in China: A Systematic Risk Management Approach (supported by Walmart Foundation, 2016-on), and 4) research on venture finance, production of scientific knowledge, work of the future in China. He has published numerous articles in academic journals and in media and 11 books in English and Chinese.At MIT Sloan, Huang founded and directs China Lab and India Lab, which have provided low-cost consulting services to over 360 small and medium enterprises in China and India. Between 2015 and 2018, he ran a program in Yunnan province to train small and medium women entrepreneurs (funded by Goldman Sachs Foundation). He has held or received prestigious fellowships such as the National Fellowship at Stanford University and the Social Science Research Council-MacArthur Fellowship. He was named by the National Asia Research Program as one of the most outstanding scholars in the United States conducting research on issues of policy importance to the United States. He is or has been a Fellow at the Center for China in the World Economy at Tsinghua University, a Research Fellow at Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, a Fellow at William Davidson Institute at Michigan Business School, and a World Economic Forum Fellow. He has served as a consultant at World Bank, Asian Development Bank, and OECD and is serving on a number of advisory and corporate boards of non-profit and for-profit organizations. Honors Yasheng Huang has been selected in the first class of Research Associates and Fellows of the National Asia Research Program Professor Yasheng Huang has recently been selected in the first class of Research Associates and Fellows of the National Asia Research Program (NARP), a joint project of the National Bureau of Asian Research and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Huangand his SHASS colleague Professor M. Taylor Fravel were selected for their excellent research on policy issues of importance to United States interests in Asia. Read More Yasheng Huang's book cited as one of the best books of 2008 by The Economist Yasheng Huang's book Capitalism with Chinese Characteristics: Entrepreneurship and the Statewas cited by The Economist as one of the best books of 2008 and a pick of the pile in economics and business. Read More Publications SSRN "Jack Ma Is Retiring. Is Chinas Economy Losing Steam?" Huang, Yasheng. The New York Times, September 28, 2018. "Chinas Use of Big Data Might Actually Make it Less Big-brotherish." Huang, Yasheng. MIT Technology Review, August 2018. "The Organizationally-Enabled Longevity of Chinese Absolutism." Huang, Yasheng, and Clair Yang. Academy of Management Proceedings Vol. 2018, No. 1 (2018): 18197. "Are Foreign Firms Favored in China? Firm-level Evidence on the Collection of Value-Added Taxes." Huang, Yasheng, and Heiwai Tang. Journal of International Business Policy Vol. 1, No. 1-2 (2018): 71-91. Download Paper. "How Gradualist are Chinese Reforms? Evidence from Rural Income Determinants." Huang, Yasheng, and Meijun Qian. The European Journal of Finance Vol. 24, No. 1 (2018): 19-35. "America's Second Sputnik Moment?" Huang, Yasheng. Project Syndicate, July 2018. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan Global Programs to host inaugural International Faculty Fellows Conference in Beijing next month in collaboration with Tsinghua University MIT Sloan Global Programs will hold the first International Faculty Fellows (IFF) Conference with Tsinghua University on Nov. 12, 2018, in Beijing. Nov 2, 2018 Read Article Press Bangkoks first-ever Action Learning Conference to be co-hosted by MIT Sloan and Sasin School of Management on July 25 Distinguished corporate and academic speakers from Thailand, the United States and around the world slated to present impactful methods for leaders on driving change Jul 17, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Christian Science Monitor Fueling US-China clash, years of disconnects Oct 2, 2020 China's leaders have long misunderstood what makes Americans tick, says [Prof.] Yasheng Huang. Faculty: Yasheng Huang Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) How digital contact tracing slowed COVID-19 in East Asia Apr 15, 2020 Faculty: Yasheng Huang Source: The New York Times (Opinion Piece) China has a big economic problem, and it isn't the trade war Jan 17, 2020 Faculty: Yasheng Huang Source: Netflix (Video; Subscription Required) Explained: "Billionaires" Oct 3, 2019 Faculty: Yasheng Huang Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
