Robert Gibbons | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Robert Gibbons curriculum vitae Support Staff Emily Fairbanks (617) 253-8959 manninge@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-519 rgibbons@mit.edu (617) 253-0283 (617) 258-6786 http://web.mit.edu/rgibbons/www/ Title Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Robert Gibbons is the Sloan Distinguished Professor of Management and a Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and he is Professor of Economics in MITs Department of Economics. He is also the co-principal investigator for the Program on Innovation in Markets and Organizations at MIT Sloan (2002-present). Gibbons studies the design and performance of organizations and contracts, especially relational contractsagreements so rooted in the parties particular circumstances that they are not written down, so that disputes cannot be adjudicated by outsiders such as courts. These contracts arise frequently both within firms such as between headquarters and divisionsand between firms such as in alliances. In some cases, relational contracts appear to be the source of persistent performance differences among seemingly similar firms, plants, and work groups. His book, Game Theory for Applied Economists (Princeton University Press, 1992), has been translated into Chinese, Hungarian, Italian, Japanese, and Spanish. He co-edited the Handbook of Organizational Economics with John Roberts (Princeton University Press, 2013) and he is currently preparing a doctoral text on organizational economics. Gibbons served on the board of the Citicorp Behavioral Sciences Research Council for its duration, from 1994 to 2000, and on the board of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences from 2000 to 2006. He is the founding director of the working group in organizational economics at the National Bureau of Economic Research (2002-present). He holds an AB in applied mathematics from Harvard University, an MPhil in economics from Cambridge University, and a PhD in decision sciences from Stanford University. He is a fellow of the Econometric Society and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Honors Bob Gibbons has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Bob Gibbons has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The Academy announced its 2009 Class of Fellows on April 20th. The Academy, established in 1780, is one of the nation's most prestigious honorary societies and is a center for independent policy research. The current membership includes more than 250 Nobel laureates and more than 60 Pulitzer Prize winners. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Inside Organizations: Pricing, Politics, and Path-Dependence." Gibbons, Robert S. Annual Review of Economics Vol. 2, (2010): 337-365. Featured Publication "Organizational Economics." Gibbons, Robert S., and John Roberts. In Emerging Trends in the Social and Behavioral Sciences, 1-15. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2016. "Knowledge, Stories, and Culture in Organizations." Gibbons, Robert, and Laurence Prusak. American Economic Review Papers and Proceedings. Forthcoming. "March-ing Towards Organizational Economics." Gibbons, Robert S. Industrial and Coporate Change. Forthcoming. "Relational Adaptation under Reel Authority." Barron, Daniel, Robert S. Gibbons, Ricard Gil, and Kevin J. Murphy. Management Science. Forthcoming. SSRN Preprint. "Visible Hands: Governance of Value CreationWithin Firms and Beyond." Gibbons, Robert. American Economic Review Papers and Proceedings. Forthcoming. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter An analysis of Fannie Mae's Credit Risk Transfer program New study commends program as a 'big step forward,' but calls for more default risk transferred to investors. Jul 12, 2018 Read Article The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
