Peter Weill | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Peter Weill linkedin Support Staff Dorothea Gray-Papastathis (617) 253-3372 grayd@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E94-1549 pweill@mit.edu (617) 253-2930 (617) 253-4424 http://cisr.mit.edu Title Senior Research Scientist; Chairman, Center for Information Systems Research (CISR) 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Information Technology Information Technology Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Information Systems Research Peter Weill is a Senior Research Scientist and Chair of the Center for Information Systems Research (CISR) at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His work centers on the role, value, and governance of digitization in enterprises. Weill joined the MIT Sloan faculty in 2000 to become director of MIT Sloans Center for Information Systems Research (CISR). MIT CISR is funded by 80 corporate sponsors and patrons, and undertakes practical research on how firms generate business value from information technology (IT). As chair, Weill focuses on globalizing the centers research and delivery. In 2008, Ziff Davis recognized Weill as #24 of The Top 100 Most Influential People in IT, the highest-ranked academic. His award-winning books, journal articles, and case studies have appeared in the Harvard Business Review, the Sloan Management Review, and The Wall Street Journal. Weill has co-authored best-selling books published by Harvard Business School Press, including IT Savvy: What Top Executives Must Know to Go from Pain to Gain (2009), Enterprise Architecture as Strategy: Creating a Foundation for Business Execution (2006), IT Governance: How Top Performers Manage IT Decision Rights for Superior Results (2004), and Leveraging the New Infrastructure: How Market Leaders Capitalize on Information Technology (1998). His co-authored book, Place to Space: Migrating to eBusiness Models (2001), was named by Library Journal as one of the best business books of the year, and was reviewed by The New York Times. Weill presents executive and MBA programs on the business value of IT, and in 2007 received an MIT Sloan Outstanding Teacher Award. Weill works regularly on IT issues with corporations and governments, including Aetna, ANZ, BCG, BT, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, France Telecom, IBM, McKinsey & Company, Microsoft, Origin Energy, PwC, Raytheon, State Street Corporation, TCS, Unibanco, Woolworths, and the World Bank. He has conducted workshops at Microsoft and at the Bill Gates CEO Summit; at the SAP CEO Summit; and for the boards of directors of Banco do Brasil, CBA, Unibanco, and Woolworths. Weill holds a BE from Melbourne University as well as an MBA, an MPhil, and a PhD in management information systems from New York University, Leonard N. Stern School of Business. Honors ISACA honors Weill Peter Weill will receive the 2019 ISACA (Information Systems Audit and Control Association) Chairs Award, an ISACA Global Achievement Award which is presented at the discretion of the ISACA Chair.This award is among ISACAs highest honors, recognizing exemplary and longstanding contributions and exceptional impact on ISACA and/or the business technology profession. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication What's Your Digital Business Model?: Six Questions to Help You Build the Next-Generation Enterprise. Weill, Peter, and Stephanie Woerner. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review Press, 2018. Featured Publication "Is Your Company Ready for a Digital Future?" Weill, Peter, and Stephanie L. Woerner. MIT Sloan Management Review, December 2017. "Surviving in an Increasingly Digital Ecosystem." Weill, Peter and Stephanie Woerner. MIT Sloan Management Review, November 2017. "Becoming Better Prepared for Digital Disruption." Weill, Peter and Stephanie Woerner. NACD Directorship Boardroom Intelligence, March 2016. "Thriving in an Increasingly Digital Ecosystem." Weill, Peter and Stephanie Woerner. MIT Sloan Management Review, June 2015. "Optimizing Your Digital Business Model." Weill, Peter and Stephanie Woerner. MIT Sloan Management Review, March 2013. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How to build a digitally-savvy board Five steps toward a critical mass of directors who understand. Feb 18, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter The path to a future ready organization Research shows both radical leaps or small steps can lead to successful digital transformation but one path carries less risk. Dec 12, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Enterprisers Project Nine must-read books for digital leaders May 20, 2019 Faculty: Simon Johnson Peter Weill Staff: Andrew Paul McAfee Source: Forbes (Austria) Die acht schritte Mar 29, 2019 Faculty: Peter Weill Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) Without a digitally savvy board, your company is falling behind Mar 20, 2019 Faculty: Peter Weill Source: The Enterprisers Project Digital transformation: Five signs your organization is stalled Feb 18, 2019 Faculty: Peter Weill Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
