Catherine J. Turco | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Catherine J. Turco Support Staff Judith Graham-Robey (617) 253-6680 jgrobey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-477 cturco@MIT.EDU (617) 715-4232 Title Michael M. Koerner (1949) Professor of Entrepreneurship Associate Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Catherine J. Turco is the Michael M. Koerner (1949) Professor of Entrepreneurship and an Associate Professor in MIT's Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management group as well as its program in Economic Sociology.Turco is an ethnographer and economic sociologist who studies cultural dynamics in organizations, occupations, and markets, with a particular focus on the role of meaning in economic life.She is the author of The Conversational Firm: Rethinking Bureaucracy in the Age of Social Media (New York: Columbia University Press). Her research has also appeared in the American Journal of Sociology and the American Sociological Review, and has been recognized with awards from the American Sociological Association. It has been covered by The Wall Street Journal, The Boston Globe, CNN, and Fortune.Prior to entering academia, Turco worked as a technology investment banker and then in the software industry, where she managed a corporate venture fund. She has consulted to a number of organizations on issues of corporate strategy and culture.Turco received her BA in economics from Harvard College, where in addition to her studies, she was president of Harvard Student Agencies/Lets Go Inc., a 1,000-person company. She received her MBA from Harvard Business School, where she was a Baker Scholar. She received her MA and PhD in sociology from Harvard University, where she was a Presidential Scholar. Publications "Verstehen for Sociology: Comment on Watts." Turco, Catherine, and Ezra Zuckerman Sivan. American Journal of Sociology Vol. 122, No. 4 (2017): 1272-1291. "A New Era of Corporate Conversation." Turco, Catherine. MIT Sloan Management Review, September 2016. The Conversational Firm: Rethinking Bureaucracy in the Age of Social Media. Turco, Catherine. New York, NY: Columbia University Press, 2016. "So You Think You Can Dance: Lessons from the U.S. Private Equity Bubble." Turco, Catherine, and Ezra Zuckerman Sivan. Sociological Science Vol. 1, (2014): 81-101. "Betrayal as Market Barrier: Identity-Based Limits to Diversification among High-Status Corporate Law Firms." Phillips, Damon, Catherine Turco, and Ezra Zuckerman Sivan. American Journal of Sociology Vol. 118, No. 4 (2013): 1-32. "Difficult Decoupling: Employee Resistance to the Commercialization of Personal Life." Turco, Catherine. American Journal of Sociology Vol. 118, No. 2 (2012): 380-412. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Seven 2016 books from MIT Sloan faculty members Platforms, free innovation, millennial communication, and more platforms. Nov 22, 2016 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter A look inside a conversational firm New book from MIT Sloans Catherine Turco examines one companys quest to upend corporate bureaucracy. Sep 1, 2016 Read Article Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
