Ralph Katz | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Ralph Katz Get in Touch Building E94-1504C rkatz@mit.edu (617) 324-0503 Title Senior Lecturer, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Ralph Katz is a Senior Lecturer in Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Katz is also a professor of innovation and entrepreneurship management at Northeastern Universitys College of Business. For more than 35 years, he has been carrying out extensive management research, education, and consulting on how to build, lead, and sustain the innovation process, with a particular interest in the management and motivation of technical professionals and high-performing groups and project teams. During these years, Katz has conducted numerous workshops and seminars on innovation and R&D management in many organizations, and has worked with them to improve their management and leadership of innovation, including their practices, processes, and cultures. Among his more recent clients are major industrial corporations, including Procter & Gamble; Lockheed Martin; Goodrich; EMC; Nokia; Novartis; Medtronic; Tetra Pak; Master Foods, Inc.; Ciba Specialty Chemicals; and the Lawrence Livermore and Los Alamos National Laboratories. He teaches in two MIT Sloan executive programs and leads the Management of Technology and Innovation executive program at Cal Tech. For more than 10 years, he led the Management of Technology and Technical Professionals courses at IBMs Corporate Technical Institute. Katz has taught in the executive programs of many other universities and was a visiting scholar at INSEAD in Paris during the 200304 academic year. His most recent book is The Human Side of Managing Technological Innovation, second edition (Oxford University Press, 2004). In 1981, Katz was awarded the New Concept Award by the National Academy of Management for Most Outstanding Contribution to the Field of Organizational Behavior. He also was the 1986 recipient of R&D Management Journals Best Paper Award and the 1990 and 1991 recipient of the Academy of Management TIM Divisions Best Paper Award. In 2004, his paper in the IRI-sponsored journal, Research-Technology Management, was selected as the Holland Award Winner for that years most significant and original contribution to the field of research management. Katz serves on many journal editorial boards and was the research and development/innovation and entrepreneurship departmental editor for Management Science from 1991 to 2001. Katz holds a BS in mathematics and physics from Carnegie Mellon University and an MBA and a PhD from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Publications The Human Side of Managing Technological Innovation. Katz, Ralph (Ed.). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2004. Managing Professionals in Innovative Organizations. Katz, Ralph (Ed.). New York, NY: Harper Press, 1988. Career Issues in Human Resource Management. Katz, Ralph. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1982. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
