Simon Johnson | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Simon Johnson curriculum vitae Support Staff Michelle Fiorenza (617) 253-9455 fiorenza@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-420 sjohnson@mit.edu (617) 290-9618 (617) 253-2660 http://baselinescenario.com Title Ronald A. Kurtz (1954) Professor of Entrepreneurship Professor, Global Economics and Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship SIMON JOHNSONis theRonald A. Kurtz (1954) Professor of Entrepreneurshipat the MIT Sloan School of Management, where he is also head of the Global Economics and Management group and chair of the Sloan Fellows MBA Program Committee. He co-founded and currently leads the popular Global Entrepreneurship Lab (GLAB) course over the past 20years. MBA students in GLAB have worked on more than 500 projects with start-up companies around the world.He is the coauthor, with Jon Gruber, ofJump-Starting America:How Breakthrough Science Can Revive Economic Growth and the American Dream.Johnson is on leave as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, D.C. From 2012 to 2019, he was a member of the FDICs Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee.From July 2014 to 2017, Johnson was a member of the Financial Research Advisory Committee of the U.S. Treasurys Office of Financial Research (OFR), within which he chaired the Global Vulnerabilities Working Group.Johnson has been a member of the private sector Systemic Risk Council since it was founded by Sheila Bair in 2012; this group is now chaired by Sir Paul Tucker.From April 2009to April 2015, he was a member of the Congressional Budget Office's Panel of Economic Advisers. In March 2016, Johnson was the third distinguished visiting fellow at the Central Bank of Barbados.For his articulate and outspoken support for public policies to end too-big-to-fail,Johnson was named a Main Street Heroby the Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA) in 2013. In April 2015, the Washington Examiner placedJohnson at #11 on their list of New Voices for 2015. In November 2015, Johnson joined the advisory council of Intelligence2 Debates.Over the past decade, Johnson has published more than 300 high impact pieces in theNew York Times, Bloomberg, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, The Atlantic, The New Republic, BusinessWeek, The Huffington Post, The Financial Times, andProject Syndicate.The Quiet Coup received over a million views when it appeared inThe Atlanticin early 2009. His book13 Bankers: the Wall Street Takeover and the Next Financial Meltdown(with James Kwak), was an immediate bestseller and has becomeone of the mostly highly regarded books on the financial crisis. Their follow-up book on U.S. fiscal policy,White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters for You, won praise across the political spectrum. Johnsons academic research on economic development, corporate finance, and political economy is widely cited.From March 2007 through the end of August 2008, Johnson was the International Monetary Fund's Economic Counsellor (chief economist) and Director of its Research Department. He also helped to found and run the NBER Africa Project; four volumes were published by the University of Chicago Press in 2016.Johnson holds a BA in economics and politics from the University of Oxford, an MA in economics from the University of Manchester, and a PhD in economics from MIT.IMPORTANT: For any media or appointment requests to Professor Johnson please be sure to copy Michelle Fiorenza:fiorenza@mit.edu. Honors Simon Johnson and Kristin Forbes have recently been appointed to the Congressional Budget Office's Panel of Economic Advisers Simon Johnson and Kristin Forbes have recently been appointed to the Congressional Budget Office's Panel of Economic Advisers. The Congressional Budget Office is the non-partisan organization that provides the formal analysis for Congress -- most importantly the estimates of the costs of different proposals that are then used as inputs for proposed legislation and the Congressional budget process. Read More Johnson wins Jamieson Prize Simon Johnson and Sinan Aral were each awarded the 2017Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Transitioning out of the Coronavirus Lockdown: A Framework for Zone-Based Social Distancing." Friedman, Eric, John Friedman, Simon Johnson, and Adam Landsberg, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6097-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "What Countries and Companies Can Do When Trade and Cybersecurity Overlap." Madnick, Stuart, Simon Johnson, and Keman Huang. Harvard Business Review, January 2019. Jump-Starting America: How Breakthrough Science Can Revive Economic Growth and the American Dream. Gruber, Jonathan, and Simon Johnson. New York, NY: Public Affairs, 2019. The Impact of Blockchain Technology on Finance: A Catalyst for Change. Casey, Michael, Jonah Crane, Gary Gensler, Simon Johnson, and Neha Narula. Geneva, Switzerland: Center for Economic Policy Research, 2018. "The Financial Stability Oversight Council: An Essential Role for the Evolving US Financial System." Simon Johnson and Antonio Weiss. Policy Brief 17-20. Washington, DC: May 2017. African Successes, Volume I: Government and Institutions. Edwards, Sebastian, Simon Johnson, and David N. Weil (Eds.). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2016. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A COVID-19 playbook for nursing homes Download the MIT COVID-19 Policy Alliances new report for nursing facility leaders and policymakers. Nov 2, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter How a simple calculator and job portal are fighting COVID-19 A group of MIT Sloan faculty and students are using analytics to help senior homes stock up on protective gear and fill health care support roles. Jun 8, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Washington Post Biden taps proponents of stricter Wall Street rules for his agency revie... Nov 10, 2020 Joe Biden tapped Professors Gary Gensler and Simon Johnson for his agency review teams. Faculty: Gary Gensler Simon Johnson Source: Manhattan Institute (Video) Exploding public debt: Consequences for fixed income markets and future ... Nov 9, 2020 Allison Schrager discusses debts, fiscal policy, and the future of financial markets in the aftermath of today's crises with Simon Johnson. Faculty: Simon Johnson Source: The Economist Economists are turning to culture to explain wealth and poverty Sep 5, 2020 Work by Acemoglu and Johnson has found a further element of randomness which may explain contemporary patterns of wealth and poverty. Faculty: Simon Johnson Daron Acemoglu Source: Project Syndicate (Opinion Piece) Realizing America's anti-COVID potential Aug 31, 2020 "The US has everything any country needs to contain the pandemic except the leadership to get it done." Faculty: Simon Johnson Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
