Lotte Bailyn | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Lotte Bailyn Support Staff Erika Paoletti (617) 253-2650 epaolett@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-377 lbailyn@mit.edu (617) 253-6674 (617) 253-2660 Title T Wilson (1953) Professor of Management, Emerita Professor, Work and Organization Studies, Emerita 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Lotte Bailyn is the T Wilson (1953) Professor of Management, Emerita at the MIT Sloan School of Management. For the period 1997-99 she was Chair of the MIT faculty, and during 1995-97 she was the Matina S. Horner Distinguished Visiting Professor at Radcliffe's Public Policy Institute. She studies the relationship between managerial practice and employees lives. Her research investigates how institutional and organizational processes intersect with peoples lives, with special emphasis on the dynamics of gender and diversity in business organizations and academia. Bailyn argues that industries will fail in an intensely competitive world unless they take into account the changing nature of the professional workforce including the influx of women and the consequent lifestyle changes for both women and men. Her work in organizations shows that work and personal life are complementary, even synergistic, rather than adversarial. By challenging the assumptions in which current work practices are embedded, the goals of both business productivity and employees family and community concerns can be met in ways that are equitable for both men and women. Bailyn holds a BA in mathematics from Swarthmore College as well as an MA and a PhD in social psychology from Harvard/Radcliffe and two honorary degrees. She is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association and the Association for Psychological Science. Honors Bailyn receives honorary doctorate Lotte Bailyn is being recognized with an honorary doctorate (Doctor Philosophiae Honoris Causa) from The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, for her groundbreaking work and academic and public leadership in promoting the equal integration of women into the labor force more generally and particularly into the fields of science and technology. This honor recognizes how Bailyns innovative research in the field of work-family reconciliation has advanced both the academic and corporate realms, noting that her work surfaced the challenges associated with bridging work and family obligations not only as individuals and families mission, but as organizational and social issues, leading to the development of solutions that benefit both employees and employers around the world.In addition, her profound understanding of career dynamics and gender equity in the fields of science and technology facilitated womens struggle to gain public recognition for the discrimination they suffer in their academic and scientific careers, and her leadership has played a crucial role in cooperation among leading universities around the world to develop policies for mitigating the marginalization and exclusion [of] women and other social minorities. Read More Lotte Bailyn named the 2009 recipient of Gordon Y Billard Award Lotte Bailyn, Professor of Management, has been named the 2009 recipient of MIT's Gordon Y. Billard Award. This award is presented annually for "special service of outstanding merit performed for the Institute," with a fund established by Mr. Gordon Y Billard, '24. Read More Publications SSRN "Moving the Management Field Forward." Walsh, Isabelle, Judth Holton, Lotte Bailyn and Barney G. Glaser. Organizational Research Methods Vol. 18, No. 4 (2015): 620-628. "What Grounded Theory Is: A Critically Reflective Conversation Among Scholars." Walsh, Isabelle, Judith A. Holton, Lotte Bailyn, Walter Fernandez, Natalia Levina and Barney Glaser. Organizational Research Methods Vol. 18, No. 4 (2015): 581-599. "Work-Family Interventions." Bailyn, Lotte and Joyce K. Fletcher. In The Sage Encyclopedia of Action Research, 823-824. London, UK: Sage Publications, Ltd., 2014. "For Women to Thrive, Men Should Lean Out." Bailyn, Lotte. USA Today, March 2014. "Innovation in Ambulatory Care: A Collaborative Approach to Redesigning the Health Care Workplace." Johnson, Paula A., Ann Bookman, Lotte Bailyn, Mona Harrington and Piper Orton. Academic Medicine Vol. 86, No. 2 (2011): 211-216. "Redesigning Work for Gender Equity and Work-Personal Life Integration." Bailyn, Lotte. Community, Work and Family Vol. 14, No. 1 (2011): 97-112. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter For American workers, time really is money Give employees autonomy over their schedules, and theyll stay loyal and productive in return. May 14, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter The 1 thing your company should add to its retirement benefits Why you should develop mutually beneficial plans for managing one of life's biggest transitions. Oct 29, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: GreenBook Blog Interview with Deborah Ancona: Seley Distinguished Professor Sep 17, 2019 Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Lotte Bailyn John Van Maanen Source: MIT Sloan Management Review A new era for culture, change, and leadership Jun 5, 2019 Faculty: Edgar H. Schein Lotte Bailyn John Van Maanen The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
