Heikki Rantakari | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Heikki Rantakari Get in Touch Building E62-513 heikki@mit.edu (617) 253-0918 http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~rantakar/ Title Visiting Associate Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Heikki Rantakari is a Visiting Assistant Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research interests are in applied microeconomic theory and organizational economics. He is particularly interested in models of decision-making in organizations and organizational structures.Rantakari holds a BSc in economics from LSE and a PhD in economics from MIT. Publications "Conflict Resolution and Organizational Influence." Rantakari, Heikki, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5054-13. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2013. "Information Acquisition, Resource Allocation and Managerial Incentives." Rantakari, Heikki, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5058-13. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2013. "Organizational Design and Environmental Volatility." Rantakari, Heikki. 2013. "Project Selection with Strategic Communication and Further Investigations." Rantakari, Heikki, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5056-13. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2013. "The Art of Brevity." Rantakari, Heikki, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5057-13. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2013. "The Politics of Compromise." Rantakari, Heikki, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5055-13. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2013. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
