Nikos Trichakis | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nikos Trichakis curriculum vitae Support Staff Samantha Arnold (617) 715-4822 arnolds@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-576 ntrichakis@mit.edu (617) 715-4215 http://web.mit.edu/nitric/www/ Title Associate Professor, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Nikolaos (Nikos) Trichakis is theZenon Zannetos (1955) Career Development Professorand an Associate Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research interests include optimization under uncertainty, data-driven optimization and analytics, with application in healthcare, supply chain management, and finance. Trichakis is also interested in the interplay of fairness and efficiency in resource allocation problems and operations, and the inherent tradeoffs that arise in balancing these objectives.Before his doctoral studies, Trichakis worked in quantitative finance at SunGard APT in London. Prior to joining MIT, Trichakis was on the faculty of Harvard Business School.He received his BS degree from Aristotle University (Greece), and MS degrees from Stanford University and Imperial College (UK), all in electrical and computer engineering. He holds a PhD in operations research from MIT. Honors Young Researchers Prize awarded to Trichakis Nikos Trichakis won the 2018 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Optimization Society Young Researchers Prize. This award recognizes one or more outstanding paper(s) in optimization published by, or forthcoming in a refereed journal within the previous four years, authored by a young scholar (having obtained their last degree within the past eight years). Trichakiss winning paper, co-authored with Dan A. Iancu (Stanford), is entitled, Pareto Efficiency in Robust Optimization (Management Science, Vol. 60, No. 1 (January 2014): 130-147). Read More Trichakis wins best paper award Nikos Trichakis won the INFORMS 2018 MSOM (Manufacturing and Service Operations Management) iFORM (Interface of Finance, Operations, and Risk Management) SIG (Special Interest Group) Best Paper Award.His winning paper, co-authored with Dan A. Iancu (Stanford) and Gerry Tsoukalas (Wharton), is entitled, Is Operating Flexibility Harmful Under Debt? (Management Science, Vol. 63, No. 6 (June 2017): 1657-2048). Read More Trichakis honored for best working paper Nikos Trichakis won third place for the 2018 INFORMS TIMES (Technology, Innovation Management & Entrepreneurship Section) Best Working Paper Award, for Blockchain and the Value of Operational Transparency for Supply Chain Finance, co-authored with Jiri Chod (Boston College), Gerry Tsoukalas (Wharton), Henry Aspegren (MIT MEng grad; Tsinghua University), and Mark Weber (MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab). Read More MIT authors win second prize Nikos Trichakis won second prize for the 2018 POMS (Production and Operations Management Society) HOCM (Humanitarian Operations & Crisis Management) Best Paper Award, for Designing Response Supply Chain Against Bioattacks, co-authored with David Simchi-Levi and Peter Yun Zhang (both at MIT). Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Development and Validation of an Optimized Prediction of Mortality (OPOM) for Candidates Awaiting Liver Transplantation." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Jerry Kung, Nikolaos Trichakis, Yuchen Wang, Ryutaro Hirose, and Parsia A. Vagefi. American Journal of Transplantation Vol. 19, No. 4 (2019): 1109-1118. opom.online. Featured in JAMA. Supplementary Materials. Featured Publication "Robust Multiclass Queuing Theory for Wait Time Estimation in Resource Allocation Systems." Bandi, Chaithanya, Nikolaos Trichakis, and Phebe Vayanos. Management Science Vol. 65, No. 1 (2019): 152-187. "Balancing Efficiency and Fairness in Liver Transplant Access: Tradeoff Curves for the Assessment of Organ Distribution Policies." Bertsimas, Dimitris, Theodore Papalexopoulos, Nikolaos Trichakis, Yuchen Wang, Ryutaro Hirose, Parsia Vagefi. Transplantation. Forthcoming. github Supplement. "Data-driven Appointment Scheduling Under Uncertainty: The Case of an Infusion Unit in a Cancer Center." Mandelbaum, Avishai, Petar Momilovi, Nikolaos Trichakis, Sarah Kadish, Ryan Leib, and Craig A. Bunnell. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Designing Response Supply Chain Against Bioattacks." Simchi-Levi, David, Nikolaos Trichakis, and Peter Yun Zhang. Operations Research. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Loyalty Program Liabilities and Point Values." Chun, So Yeon, Dan A. Iancu, and Nikolaos Trichakis. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How an analytics-based predictive model can improve kidney transplant survival rates Doctors need to trust their intuition, but a decision support tool can help them make hard choices. Sep 22, 2017 Read Article Press MIT Sloan professors design model to improve decision-making process for kidney transplantation MIT Sloan Profs. Dimitris Bertsimas and Prof. Nikos Trichakis created a data-based model to improve the kidney transplant decision-making process. Sep 1, 2017 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Harvard Business Review (Opinion Piece) Can AI fairly decide who gets an organ transplant? Dec 1, 2020 "Can AI and analytics be used in a way that improves operational efficiency without jeopardizing our ethical principles?" Faculty: Nikos Trichakis Source: 360 Magazine MIT: Liver transplant deaths reduced by 20% Jan 3, 2019 Faculty: Dimitris Bertsimas Nikos Trichakis The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
