Georgia Perakis | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Georgia Perakis linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Anne Marie Labich (617) 253-8736 alabich@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E40-111 georgiap@mit.edu (617) 253-8277 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/gperakis/ Title William F. Pounds Professor of Management Professor, Operations Management and Operations Research and Statistics EMBA Faculty Director Co-Director, Operations Research Center 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Food Supply Chain Analytics and Sensing Initiative Georgia Perakis is the William F. Pounds Professor of Management and a Professor of Operations Research, Statistics and Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management. She has been on the faculty at MIT Sloan since July 1998.Perakis teaches courses and performs research in analytics, optimization, machine learning with applications in pricing, revenue management, supply chain, and healthcare among others. Over the years, she has taught in a variety of programs such as undergraduate, MSc, PhD, MBA, and EMBA programs across MIT.For her teaching, Perakis won the Graduate Student Council Teaching Award in 2002 as well as the Jamieson Prize in 2014 for Excellence in Teaching and the Teacher of the Year award (among all faculty at the MIT Sloan School) in 2017.In her research, she investigates the theory and practice of analytics. Perakis is particularly interested in how to solve complex and practical problems in pricing, revenue management, supply chains, logistics, and energy applications among many others. She has widely published in some of the flagship journals of the field such as Operations Research, Management Science, M&SOM, Mathematics of Operations Research, Mathematical Programming, and POM among others.She has received the CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation and the PECASE Award from the Office of the President on Science and Technology. In 2016, she was elected as an INFORMS Fellow, that recognizes individuals for lifetime achievement to the field. In addition, her work has received recognition with awards such as the TSL Best Paper Award, the Best Paper competition of the Informs Service Science Section several times, as well as Best Application of Theory Award from NEDSI (Northeast Decision Sciences Institute) Conference. Her work on promotions with the Oracle RGBU was a finalist at the Practice Award of the RMP Section of INFORMS in 2015. In addition, her work on predicting demand for new products with Johnson & Johnson won first place at the Applied Research Challenge Competition in 2018.Finally, her paper with Oracle received honorable mention while her paper with Stubhub was a finalist in the MSOM practice based best paper competition in July 2019. Her work was also a finalist at the JD.com competition at the 2019 POM conference as well as in the IAAA (Innovative Applications of Analytics Award). Finally, her work with her PhD students has also been recognized with several awards including the MSOM best student paper award, the Service Science best student paper award, the RMP best dissertation award, the CBOM best student paper award and the POM Supply Chain best student paper award.Perakis has passion supervising PhD, Master's and undergraduate students and builds lifelong relationships with them. So far, she has graduated twenty-seven PhD and fifty-two Master's students. In 2012, she received the Samuel M. Seegal Award for inspiring student to achieve excellence.Currently, and since July 2019, she has been serving as the Faculty Codirector of the Operations Research Center (interdepartmental PhD program at MIT reporting to the Schwartzman College of Computing and MIT Sloan). In addition, since July 2017, she has also served asthe Faculty Director of the Executive MBA (EMBA) program at MIT Sloan. In the past, from 2009 to July 2015, Perakis served as the Sloan faculty co-director of the Leaders for Global Operations (LGO, former LFM) Program at MIT (joint program between the Sloan School and the School of Engineering). She has also served as the group head of the Operations Management group at MIT Sloan School from 2010-2017.Starting January 2021, she will serve as editor-in-chief for the M&SOM journal. Perakis currently serves as department editor for the journal Service Science in the area of Analytics and as an associate editor for the flagship journals of the field: Management Science, Operations Research, M&SOM, the INFORMS Journal on Optimization, and as a senior editor for POM. She has served as the chair of the RMP Section of INFORMS and as the vp of meetings of the MSOM Society of INFORMS.Perakis holds a BS in mathematics from the University of Athens as well as an MS and a PhD in applied mathematics from Brown University. Honors Perakis appointed editor-in-chief for M&SOM journal Georgia Perakiss appointment as editor-in-chief for Manufacturing & Service Operations Management (M&SOM), effective January 1, 2021 for a three-year term, has been approved by the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) Board of Directors.M&SOM, published quarterly, is the premier operations management journal. In addition to the appointment reflecting her outstanding record and reputation in the operations management research community, Perakis has the noteworthy distinction of being the first woman to serve as editor-in-chief at any of the top journals in the fieldM&SOM, Management Science, Operations Research, and Production and Operations Management. Read More INFORMS honors Perakis with four awards Georgia Perakis has recently won four awards for three different papers: First, Perakis won the 2019 Best Operations Management Paper in Management Science Award from the Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Society of INFORMS, which is the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences.This award honors Perakis outstanding contribution to the theory and practice of operations management among the prior three years of articles published in Management Science. Perakis' winning paper, co-authored with her former PhD students from the MIT Operations Research Center, Maxime Cohen (formerly NYU Stern; now McGill University) and Ruben Lobel (formerly Wharton; now Airbnb), is entitled, The Impact of Demand Uncertainty on Consumer Subsidies for Green Technology Adoption (Management Science (2016) 62(5):1235-1258).This paper also received Honorable Mention for the 2019 ENRE (Energy, Natural Resources, and the Environment Section of INFORMS) Best Publication Award in Environment and Sustainability, recognizing Perakis contributions to the field of environment and sustainability in Operations Research & Management Science. In addition, Perakis won Second Place for the 2019 INFORMS Service Science Best Paper Award, for Learning Personalized Product Recommendations with Customer Disengagement (currently under second round of review at Manufacturing & Service Operations Management), co-authored with Divya Singhvi (ORC PhD student of Perakis), Pavithra Harsha (ORC graduate; IBM Research), and Hamsa Bastani (Wharton).Perakis additionally won Honorable Mention (second place) in the 3rd MSOM Practice-Based Research Competition during the MSOM Conference last July, recognizing the high quality and significant practical relevance of her paper entitled, Detecting Customer Trends for Optimal Promotion Targeting (forthcoming in Manufacturing & Service Operations Management), co-authored with Lennart Baardman (ORC graduate; Michigan Ross), Tamar Cohen-Hillel (ORC PhD student of Perakis), and Setareh Borjian and Kiran Panchamgam (both at Oracle). Read More INFORMS awards Perakis for paper Georgia Perakis has received the 2018 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Best Paper of the Service Science Section Cluster Award, an award she has won three years in a row. Finalists for this honor were selected from nominated papers in the sections cluster of sponsored research papers and were invited to present their work in a Best Paper Award Competition session during the INFORMS Annual Meeting. The winning paper, co-authored with Tamar Cohen-Hillel (MIT ORC PhD student) and Kiran Panchamgam (Oracle RGBU (Retail Global Business Unit), is entitled High-Low Promotion Policies for Peak-End Demand Models (only the abstract is currently available). Read More Perakis wins first prize Georgia Perakis has won first prize in the 3rd Production and Operations Management Society (POMS) Applied Research Challenge (ARC), a biennial competition recognizing rigorous applied research that is innovative and relevant to practice in its managerial insights, implementable ideas, and impact on practice and research. An academic panel selected finalists to present their work at the 2018 POMS Annual Meeting, and a practitioner judge panel of recognized practice leaders selected the winner. Perakiss winning paper, co-authored with her MIT Operations Research Center PhD students Lennart Baardman and Divya Singhvi as well as industry collaborator Igor Levin (Johnson & Johnson), is entitled Leveraging Comparables for New Product Sales Forecasting. An extended abstract of the paper will be published in Production and Operations Management (POM), and the paper is currently under review for publication at Operations Research. Read More INFORMS honors Perakis with best paper award Georgia Perakis has received the 2017 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Best Paper of the Service Science Section Cluster Award. Finalists for this award were selected from nominated papers in the sections cluster of sponsored research papers and were invited to present their work in a Best Paper Award Competition session during the INFORMS annual meeting in October. The winning paper, co-authored with Anna M. Papush (MIT Operations Research Center doctoral student) and Pavithra Harsha, PhD 09 (IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center and past MIT Operations Research Center doctoral student), is entitled A Data-Driven Approach to Personalized Bundle Pricing and Recommendation. Perakis actually was a finalist for this award for two papersthe other was A Ranking Algorithm for Shipping in the Spot Market, co-authored with Max R. Biggs (MIT Operations Research Center doctoral student). Read More Georgia Perakis chosen as INFORMS Fellow Georgia Perakis has been selected to be an INFORMS Fellow, Class of 2016. The INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) award honors distinguished individuals who have demonstrated outstanding and exceptional accomplishments in operations research and the management sciences. Perakis was cited for exceptional research, spanning theory to practice with important contributions to variational inequalities, the price of anarchy, dynamic pricing and data analytics, and for her dedicated mentorship of a future generation of operations research scholars. Read More Georgia Perakis wins INFORMS award Georgia Perakis won the 2016 Best Paper Award Competition of the INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Service Science Section. Her winning paper, co-authored with Lennart Baardman (MIT Operations Research Center PhD student), Maxime C. Cohen (New York University Stern School of Business assistant professor), Kiran Panchamgam (Oracle Retail Science), and Danny Segev (University of Haifa Dept. of Statistics), is entitled Scheduling Promotion Vehicles to Boost Profits. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication "The Impact of Linear Optimization in Promotion Planning." Cohen, Maxime C., Ngai-Hang Zachary Leung, Kiran Panchamgam, Georgia Perakis, and Anthony Smith. Operations Research Vol. 65, No. 2 (2017): 446-468. Media Mentions: MIT Sloan Experts. O.R. by the Beach. HuffPost. Featured Publication "Regret in the Newsvendor Problem with Partial Information." Perakis, Georgia and Guillaume Roels. Operations Research Vol. 56, No. 1 (2008): 188-203. Related extended abstract. Appendix. "A Data-Driven Approach to Personalized Bundle Pricing and Recommendation." Ettl, Markus, Pavithra Harsha, Anna Papush, and Georgia Perakis. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. Media Mention: HuffPost. "A Simple Rule for Pricing with Limited Knowledge of Demand." Cohen, Maxime C., Georgia Perakis, Robert S. Pindyck. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Detecting Customer Trends for Targeted Optimized Promotions." Baardman, Lennart, Setareh Borjian Boroujeni, Tamar Cohen-Hillel, Kiran Panchamgam, and Georgia Perakis. Manufacturing and Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "An Efficient Algorithm for Dynamic Pricing Using a Graphical Representation." Cohen, Maxime, C., Sanjay Gupta, Jeremy J. Kalas, and Georgia Perakis. Production and Operations Management Vol. 29, No. 10 (2020): 2326-2349. Download Preprint. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Predicting customer trends with sales data The algorithm calculates customer trends and the most effective targeted promotions. Aug 14, 2019 Read Article Press MIT Sloan professor uses new method to identify consumer demand trends and improve profits A study by MIT Sloan Prof. Georgia Perakis found not only can consumer trends be predicted, but that they also can be used to optimize targeted promotions and improve profits by an average of 9.4%. Oct 13, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Chicago Booth Review Can government programs get people to eat more healthily? Jun 30, 2020 ...the impact of certain interventions on fruit and vegetable consumption is not well established. Faculty: Retsef Levi Georgia Perakis Source: Poets & Quants for Executives The favorite professors of executive MBAs Nov 25, 2019 Faculty: Georgia Perakis The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
