Daniel Greenwald | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Daniel Greenwald curriculum vitae Support Staff Ann Johnston (617) 715-4178 ajohns@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-641 dlg@mit.edu (617) 715-2846 Title Judy C. Lewent (1972) and Mark Shapiro Career Development Professor of Finance Assistant Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Daniel L. Greenwald is theJudy C. Lewent (1972) and Mark Shapiro Career Development Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Greenwald's research focuses on the connections between financial markets and the macroeconomy. In recent work, he has studied how institutional features of mortgage marketsparticularly limits on the ratio of mortgage payments to borrower incomecan amplify the effects of interest rate movements on debt, house prices, and economic activity, and can also help to explain the recent boom and bust in housing markets. In other work, he has investigated how inequality between workers and capital owners can affect the stock market, finding that shocks that redistribute between these factors of production are a central driver of long-horizon movements in stock prices.Greenwald holds an AB in economics from Harvard College and a PhD in economics from New York University.Current Research Focus: Greenwald studies the connections between financial markets and the macroeconomy. In recent work, he has investigated how institutional features of mortgage markets contributed to the recent boom-bust cycle, the impact of alternative mortgage contract designs on financial stability, the links between corporate debt covenants and the transmission of monetary policy, and the role of redistribution between workers and owners of capital in driving long-horizon movements in stock prices. Honors Dan Greenwald receives Homer Hoyt Doctoral Dissertation Award Dan Greenwald has received the 2016 Homer Hoyt Doctoral Dissertation Award, sponsored by the Homer Hoyt Institute, from the American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association (AREUEA). Greenwalds winning dissertation is entitled Essays on Macroeconomics and Finance. Read More Richard Stone Prize given to Dan Greenwald Dan Greenwald received the 2016 Richard Stone Prize in Applied Econometrics, awarded biennially to the best paper with substantive econometric application published in the preceding two years (in this case, the 2014 and 2015 volumes) of the Journal of Applied Econometrics. Greenwalds winning paper, co-authored with Vasco Crdia (Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco) and Marco Del Negro (Federal Reserve Bank of New York), is entitled Rare Shocks, Great Recessions. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Financial Fragility with SAM?" Greenwald, Daniel, Tim Landvoigt, and Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh. Journal of Finance. Forthcoming. "The Credit Line Channel." Greenwald, Daniel, John Krainer and Pascal Paul, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6209-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, September 2020. "Heres Why Adding Billions More to the Second Round of PPP Wont Fix It." Greenwald, Daniel. Medium. April 2020. "A Traditional Economic Stimulus Wont Work. Heres What Might." Greenwald, Daniel. Medium Marker, March 24, 2020. "A Traditional Economic Stimulus Wont Work. Heres What Might." Greenwald, Daniel. Medium. March 2020. "What Explains the COVID-19 Stock Market?" Cox, Josue, Daniel Greenwald, and Sydney Ludvigson, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6207-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, 2020. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter This niche mortgage might ease the next housing bust Shared-appreciation mortgages could help distressed homeowners, but theyre not without risk, MIT Sloan research shows Mar 4, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Medium | Marker (Opinion Piece) A traditional economic stimulus won't work. Here's what might Mar 24, 2020 Faculty: Daniel Greenwald Source: Bloomberg | Markets Old-fashioned indicators have been pretty useless for investors Jan 15, 2020 Faculty: Daniel Greenwald Source: Barron's Shareholders are taking a bigger piece of economic growthand it can't ... Apr 30, 2019 Faculty: Daniel Greenwald The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
