Antoinette Schoar | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Antoinette Schoar Support Staff Idali Vega Sanchez (617) 715-4834 ivega@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-638 aschoar@mit.edu (617) 253-3763 (617) 258-6855 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/aschoar/ Title Stewart C. Myers-Horn Family Professor of Finance Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Laboratory for Financial Engineering Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Antoinette Schoar is the Stewart C. Myers-Horn Family Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.An expert in corporate finance, entrepreneurship, and organizational economics,Schoarresearches venture capital, entrepreneurial finance, corporate diversification, governance, and capital budgeting decisions in firms. She has received the Fellowship of the George Stigler Center, 19971999, and the ERP Doctoral Scholarship of the German Ministry of Trade, 19951997.Schoar holds a diploma in economics from the University of Cologne, Germany, and aPhDin economics from the University of Chicago.Current Research Focus:Schoar's current research focuses on the areas of consumer finance, entrepreneurial finance, and new financial technologies. Some of her ongoing projects investigate how competition in credit card markets impacts consumers, the role of mortgage markets in the economy, applications of behavioral economics to consumer finance and cryptocurrency trading. She is also the cochair of the NBER Corporate Finance group and a cofounder of ideas42, a non-profit that uses insights from behavioral economics and psychology to solve social problems. Honors NBER Corporate Finance program appoints Schoar as co-director Antoinette Schoar has been appointed as co-director of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) Corporate Finance program. The NBER is a nonprofit economic research organization, dedicated to conducting research on a wide variety of issues confronting society, as well as disseminating research findings among academics, public policy makers, and business professionals. With more than 1,400 scholars who are professors of economics and business at colleges and universities in North America, the NBER is a private and nonpartisan organization supported by research grants from government agencies and private foundations, by investment income, and by individual and corporate contributions. Twenty-seven Nobel Prize winners in Economics and 13 past chairs of the U.S. President's Council of Economic Advisers have held NBER affiliations. Schoar was appointed for her wide-ranging research that spans many issues, including venture capital, entrepreneurship, household finance, and financial intermediation. She has been a member of the NBER CF program since 2001 and also directs the NBER Working Group on Entrepreneurship. Schoar is co-leading the NBER Corporate Finance program with Amir Sufi of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Their term began in January. Read More Professor Antoinette Schoar named one of the top 10 academics by aiCIO magazine MIT Sloan Professor Antoinette Schoar has been named one of the top 10 academics influencing the institutional investment industry by aiCIO magazine. Schoar joins a group of academics who have significantly aided pensions, endowments, foundations, and sovereign wealth funds, as well as institutional investors who are fulfilling their obligations to stakeholders. Read More Antoinette Schoar has received the Ewing Marion Kauffman Prize Medal for Distinguished Research in Entrepreneurship Antoinette Schoar has received the Ewing Marion Kauffman Prize Medal for Distinguished Research in Entrepreneurship. This award was established by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in 2005 to inspire promising young scholars to contribute new insight to entrepreneurship. The honor, which includes a cash prize, is awarded every two years to one scholar younger than 40 "whose research has made a significant contribution to the literature in entrepreneurship." Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Trading and Arbitrage in Cryptocurrency Markets." Makarov, Igor and Antoinette Schoar. Journal of Financial Economics. Forthcoming. "Revenue Collapses and the Consumption of Small Business Owners in the Early Stages of the COVID-19 Pandemic." Kim, Olivia S., Jonathan A. Parker, and Antoinette Schoar, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6221-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2020. "Reputation, Contract Renegotiation and Price Rigidity." Iyer, Rajkamal, Andrey Malenko, and Antoinette Schoar, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6228-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2020. "Transferring Information Between Marketing Campaigns to Improve Targeting Policies." Timoshenko, Artem, Marat Ibragimov, Duncan Simester, Jonathan A. Parker, and Antoinette Schoar, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6220-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2020. "Retail Financial Innovation and Stock Market Dynamics: The Case of Target Date Funds." Parker, Jonathan A., Antoinette Schoar, and Yang Sun, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6206-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2020. NBER Working Paper 28028. "The Effect of Managers on Systematic Risk." Schoar, Antoinette, Kelvin Yeung, and Luo Zuo, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6149-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2020. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How unemployment benefits spur new business creation Data from France shows that unemployment benefits can encourage entrepreneurs to open up new businesses and boost the economy. Aug 27, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 3 policy proposals to bolster the post-lockdown economy Financial experts call for more aid to small businesses, more liquidity for banks, penalty-free access to retirement accounts and a safe return to work. Jun 3, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance The effect of managers on systematic risk Jul 14, 2020 A key principle in asset pricing theory is that investors are compensated for bearing systematic risk, but not idiosyncratic risk. Faculty: Antoinette Schoar Source: Profit & Loss Bailout for large corps a 'grave mistake,' say MIT professors Mar 24, 2020 Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Jonathan A. Parker Antoinette Schoar David Thesmar Haoxiang Zhu The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
