James B. Orlin | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty James B. Orlin curriculum vitae Support Staff Naomi Stephen (617) 324-7328 nstephen@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-570 jorlin@mit.edu (617) 253-6606 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/jorlin/ Title E. Pennell Brooks (1917) Professor in Management Professor, Operations Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Virtual Customer Initiative James Orlin is theE. Pennell Brooks (1917) ProfessorinManagementand aProfessor of Operations Research at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Orlin specializes in network and combinatorial optimization. He has helped to develop improved solution methodologies in airline scheduling, railroad scheduling, logistics, network design, telecommunications, inventory control, and marketing. Together with MIT Sloan colleague Thomas L. Magnanti and Ravindra K. Ahuja, he has written the award-winning textbook,NetworkFlows:Theory, Algorithms, and Applications(Prentice Hall, 1993).Orlin holds a BA in mathematics from the University of Pennsylvania, an MA in mathematics from the California Institute of Technology,an MMathfrom the University of Waterloo, and aPhDin operations research from Stanford University. Honors Orlin receives Khachiyan Prize Jim Orlin has won the 2020 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) Optimization Society Khachiyan Prize for lifetime achievements in the area of optimization, honoring innovativeness and impact in the field.The award citation notes Orlins deep and extensive contributions to network flows and combinatorial optimization, including novel results for max flows, min cost flows, min cuts, and shortest cycles. Read More Jim Orlin wins Test of Time Award Jim Orlin has won the ACM SIGecom Association for Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on E-commerce) Test of Time Award, which recognizes papers published between 10 and 25 years ago that have had significant impact on research or applications that exemplifythe interplay of economics and computation. Orlins winning paper, (co-authored with John J. Bartholdi, III of Georgia Tech), is entitled Single Transferable Vote Resists Strategic Voting.The award committee characterized this paper as being one of two that in many ways catalyzed an entire field, noting its influence on the subfield of computational social choice. Read More James Orlin is a co-winner of the Leonard G. Abraham Prize The Leonard G. Abraham Prize is given annually to the best original paper published in the past year in the IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications. Jim Orlin received the award for the paper, "Preconfiguring IP-over-Optical Networks to Handle Router Failures and Unpredictable Traffic," co-authored with Murali Kodialam, T. V. Lakshman, and Sudipta Sengupta. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Network Flows." Ahuja, Ravindra K., Thomas L. Magnanti and James B. Orlin. In Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science, Volume 1: Optimization, 211-369. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1989. Featured Publication "Max flows in O(nm) time or better." James B. Orlin. In STOC '13 Proceedings of the forty-fifth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing, New York, NY: June 2013. "A Fast Max Flow Algorithm." Orlin, James B. and Xiaoyue Gong. Networks. Forthcoming. "Directed Shortest Paths via Approximate Cost Balancing." James B. Orlin and Lszl A. Vgh. In Proceedings of the 2021 Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, Alexandria, VA: Forthcoming. "Distributionally Robust Max Flows." Louis L. Chen, Will Ma, James B. Orlin, and David Simchi-Levi. In SIAM Symposium on Simplicity in Algorithms, edited by Inge Li Grtz and Martin Farach-Colton. 2020. "Robust Monotone Submodular Function Maximization." Orlin, James B., Andreas S. Schulz, and Rajan Udwani. Mathematical Programming Vol. 172, No. 1/2 (2018): 505-537. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
