Edgar H. Schein | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Edgar H. Schein Get in Touch Building E62 scheine@comcast.net (617) 864-7540 (617) 253-2660 Title Society of Sloan Fellows Professor of Management Emeritus Professor Emeritus, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Edgar Schein is the Society of Sloan Fellows Professor of Management Emeritus and a Professor Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Schein investigates organizational culture, process consultation, research process, career dynamics, and organization learning and change. In Career Anchors, third edition (Wiley, 2006), he shows how individuals can diagnose their own career needs and how managers can diagnose the future of jobs. His research on culture shows how national, organizational, and occupational cultures influence organizational performance (Organizational Culture and Leadership, fourth edition, 2010). In Process Consultation Revisited (1999) and Helping (2009), he analyzes how consultants work on problems in human systems and the dynamics of the helping process. Schein has written two cultural case studiesStrategic Pragmatism: The Culture of Singapores Economic Development Board (MIT Press, 1996) and DEC is Dead; Long Live DEC (Berett-Kohler, 2003). His Corporate Culture Survival Guide, second edition (Jossey-Bass, 2009) tells managers how to deal with culture issues in their organizations. Schein holds a BPhil from the University of Chicago, a BA and an MA in social psychology from Stanford University, and a PhD in social psychology from Harvard University. Honors Edgar Schein receives Beckhard Award Edgar Schein is the recipient of the 2015 Beckhard Award for outstanding contribution to the field of Organization Development. This annual award is given by the International Organization Development Association (IODA). The award recognizes Scheins lifetime achievement and many years of distinguished, continuous contribution. Read More Ed Schein is the recipient of the 2009 Distinguished Practitioner Scholar Award, an Academy of Management (AOM) Career Achievement Award Ed Schein is the recipient of the 2009 Distinguished Practitioner Scholar Award, an Academy of Management (AOM) Career Achievement Award. This award recognizes, over the course of a career, significant contributions in using practice-based learning to influence theory and/or research-based theory to influence the practice of management. Read More Publications "Healing the Professional Culture of Medicine." Shanafelt, Tait D., Edgar Schein, Lloyd B. Minor, Mickey Trockel, Peter Schein, and Darrell Kirch. Mayo Clinic Proceedings Vol. 94, No. 8 (2019): 1556-1556. Download Paper. The Corporate Culture Survival Guide: Culture, Change, Leadership. Schein, Edgar, and Peter Schein. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2019. Humble Leadership: The Power of Relationships, Openness, and Trust. Schein, Edgar H., and Peter A. Schein. Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2018. Organizational Culture and Leadership. Schein, Edgar H., and Peter Schein. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2016. "Career Anchors and Job/Role Planning: Tools for Career and Talent Management." Schein, Edgar H., and John Van Maanen. Organizational Dynamics Vol. 45, No. 3 (2016): 165-173. Humble Consulting: How to Provide Real Help Faster. Schein, Edgar H. Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2016. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 6 insights from MIT Sloan Management Review An interactive corporate dataset, an AI ethicist, marketing strategies, and more. Jun 26, 2019 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 2018 books from MIT Sloan faculty From blockchain to collective bargaining, here are the books from MIT Sloan faculty that made their debut in 2018. Dec 18, 2018 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Inc. 6 unforgettable leadership books you should have under your Christmas tr... Dec 24, 2019 Faculty: Edgar H. Schein Source: CNBC A 50-year-old CEO shares 11 books he wishes he read in his 30s: 'I'd be ... Nov 22, 2019 Faculty: Edgar H. Schein Source: Inc. Best ten leadership books to read before you turn 30 Jul 24, 2019 Faculty: Edgar H. Schein Source: MIT Sloan Management Review An executive guide to the summer 2019 issue Jun 11, 2019 Faculty: Edgar H. Schein Staff: Michael Schrage David Kiron Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
