John D. Sterman | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty John D. Sterman curriculum vitae Support Staff Jocelyn Climent (617) 258-5583 jcliment@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-436 jsterman@mit.edu (617) 253-1951 (617) 258-7579 http://jsterman.scripts.mit.edu Title Jay W. Forrester Professor of Management Professor, System Dynamics and Engineering Systems Director, MIT System Dynamics Group 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups System Dynamics Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence MIT Sloan Sustainability Initiative John D. Sterman is the Jay W. Forrester Professor of Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management and a Professor in the MIT Institute for Data, Systems, and Society. He is also the Director of the MIT System Dynamics Group and the MIT Sloan Sustainability Initiative.Stermans research centers on improving decision-making in complex systems, including corporate strategy and operations, energy policy, public health, environmental sustainability, and climate change. His work ranges from the dynamics of organizational change and the implementation of sustainable improvement programs to climate change and the implementation of policies to promote a sustainable world. Sterman pioneered the development of management flight simulators of corporate and economic systems which are now used by corporations, universities, and governments around the world.He is the author of many scholarly and popular articles on the challenges and opportunities facing organizations today, including the book, Modeling for Organizational Learning, and the award-winning textbook, Business Dynamics.Sterman is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and received an honorary doctorate from the Universit della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland. He has twice been awarded the Jay W. Forrester Prize for the best published work in system dynamics; has won an IBM Faculty Award as well as the Accenture Award for the best paper of the year published in the California Management Review. He received the Best Application Award from the System Dynamics Society for his work on climate change policy. At MIT, he has been recognized with the Samuel E. Seegal Faculty Prize, given to a professor who inspires students in pursuing and achieving excellence, the Jamieson Award for Excellence in Teaching, numerous other awards for teaching excellence; and was named one of MIT Sloans Outstanding Faculty by the BusinessWeek Guide to the Best Business Schools. His research has been featured in media around the world including the New York Times, Washington Post, Boston Globe ,Public TelevisionsNews Hour, National Public Radios Marketplace, WGBH, and other media for his innovative use of interactive simulations in management education and policymaking, particularly in climate change and energy policy.Sterman holds an AB in engineering and environmental systems from Dartmouth College and a PhD in system dynamics from MIT. Honors Outstanding Service Award Goes to Sterman John Sterman has won the System Dynamics Society Outstanding Service Award. This award recognizes individuals who have made exceptional contributions to the society over an extended period of time, on a volunteer basis, in a way that benefits the development and advancement of system dynamics, helps the society achieve its goals, and sets a standard to inspire others. Professor Peter Milling, chair of the award committee, noted that awardees are individuals who besides having exhibited the highest standards of service excellence, dedication, and accomplishment also have taken initiatives to move the society forward and created positive results for society members and the larger community of people interested in System Dynamics. He highlighted Stermans service in leadership roles on the societys policy council, as conference program chair, as editor of theSystem Dynamics Review, and as creator of numerous society initiatives. Read More Sterman elected as AAAS Fellow John Sterman has been elected as a Fellow of the AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science). AAAS Fellows are elected by their peers in recognition of their scientifically or socially distinguished efforts to advance science. Sterman in particular was recognized for his distinguished contributions to improving decision-making in complex systems, including corporate strategy and operations, energy policy, public health, environmental sustainability, and climate change. The 2017 AAAS Fellows were formally announced recently in the AAAS News and Notes section ofScienceand will be honored at a ceremony in February 2018 at the AAAS Annual Meeting in Austin, Texas. Read More John Stermans paper wins ARCS Peoples Choice Award John Sterman has received the Alliance for Research on Corporate Sustainability (ARCS) Conference Peoples Choice Award for high-impact work at the 9th Annual ARCS Research conference held in June at the Rotterdam School of Management at Erasmus University Rotterdam in the Netherlands. This award is based on a vote of conference attendees for the best paper at the conference. Stermans winning paper, co-authored with Juliette Rooney-Varga (UMass Lowell), Eduardo Fracassi (Instituto Tecnologico de Buenos Aires), Travis Franck (Climate Interactive), Florian Kapmeier (ESB Business School, Reutlingen University, Germany), Victoria Kurker (UMass Lowell), Ellie Johnston (Climate Interactive), Andrew Jones (Climate Interactive), and Kenneth Rath (SageFox Consulting Group), is entitled Can role-play with interactive models enhance climate knowledge, affect and intent to act? Read More Sterman wins Seegal Prize John Sterman has won the 2016 Samuel E. Seegal Faculty Prize, in recognition of his having inspired students in pursuing and achieving excellence. The prize is awarded to a faculty member for pursuing excellence at either MIT Sloan or the MIT School of Engineering every other year. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "A Simulation Game that Motivates People to Act on Climate." Rooney-Varga, Juilette, Eduardo Fracassi, Travis Franck, Florian Kapmeier, Carolyn McCarthy, Karen McNeal, Dr. Nicole Norfles, Kenneth Rath, and John D. Sterman. In The Encyclopedia of Climate Change: Finance, Economics and Policy, edited by Jan W. Dash, Singapore: World Scientific, Forthcoming. "Special Issue: System Dynamics at Sixty." Sterman, John D., and Nelson Repenning (Eds.). System Dynamics Review, Forthcoming. "Estimating COVID-19 Under-Reporting Across 86 Nations: Implications for Projections and Control." Rahmandad, Hazhir, TY Lim, and John Sterman, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6146-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "The Climate Action Simulation." Rooney-Varga, Juliette N., Florian Kapmeier, John D. Sterman, Andrew P. Jones, Michele Putko, and Kenneth Rath. Simulation and Gaming Vol. 51, No. 2 (2020): 114-140. "Is It Easy Being Green?: MIT Sloan Considers the Opportunities and Threats of Sustainable Building." John D. Sterman, Ankita Kaulberg and Bethany Patten. In Case Study: MIT Sloan School Management Learning Edge, Cambridge, MA: 2020. "The 2018 Jay Wright Forrester Award." Homer, Jack, Erling Moxnes, Khalid Saeed, John D. Sterman, Kimberly M. Thompson, and The Forrester Award Committee. System Dynamics Review Vol. 35, No. 2 (2019): 109-111. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 18 quotes for business and management from 2020 Amid the chaos of 2020, some wisdom shone through. Here are words worth rereading from business leaders, scholars, and scientists. Dec 10, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter COVID-19 cases are 12 times higher than reported New research reveals the true scope of COVID-19s global spread. But dont bank on herd immunity. Jul 2, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Climate Scientists (Podcast) John Sterman: Informed decision-making for climate change policy Oct 11, 2020 Prof. John Sterman joins Dan Jones to discuss tools for informed decision-making for climate change policy. Faculty: John D. Sterman Source: The Independent (UK) China's zero carbon pledge: What does it mean for the global climate cha... Sep 24, 2020 Emissions that don't happen between now and 2030 are going to reduce warming a lot more than the same emission reductions after 2060. Faculty: John D. Sterman Source: Associated Pres China, top global emitter, aims to go carbon-neutral by 2060 Sep 23, 2020 If China fulfills Xi's goal, it could prevent 0.4 to 0.7 degrees further warming for the world. Faculty: John D. Sterman Source: WCVB-TV (Video) MIT researcher says COVID-19 cases likely 10x higher than reported Jul 2, 2020 A recent MIT study found that the actual number of coronavirus cases and deaths may be widely underreported. Prof. John Sterman was interviewed. Faculty: John D. Sterman Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
