Donald Roy Lessard | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Emeritus | Faculty Donald Roy Lessard curriculum vitae Support Staff Sumaiya Rahman Haddad (617) 253-6679 sumaiyar@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-467 dlessard@mit.edu (617) 253-6688 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/dlessard/ Title Epoch Foundation Professor of International Management, Emeritus Professor of Global Economics and Management, Emeritus Professor of Engineering Systems, Emeritus 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Donald R. Lessard is the Epoch Foundation Professor of International Management, Emeritus at the MIT Sloan School of Management. His research interests are in global strategic management and large-scale project management.He has published extensively on these topics in academic and professional journals, and is coauthor of Strategic Management of Large Engineering Projects: Shaping Institutions, Risks, and Governance (MIT Press 2001 with Roger Miller).A member of the MIT faculty since 1973, Lessard has served as Deputy Dean of the Sloan School with responsibilities for research, international programs, and executive education; cochair of the Energy Education Task Force that launched an Institute-wide undergraduate energy minor; and founding director of the MIT Executive MBA, the BP Projects and Engineering Academy, as well as leading executive education programs for Li and Fung, China Development Bank, and Arup. He also led the MIT-Merrill Lynch Partnership, MIT's first large-scale collaboration with a financial services firm.A leader in international management education, Lessard is a past President of the Academy of International Business and Dean of the Fellows of the Academy. An academic advisor to the Brattle Group, he has led major consulting assignments with firms, banks, and government agencies throughout the world. He is a founding advisor to Promethean Energy Corporation.Lessard earned his BA in Latin American studies and his MBA and PhD in business administration from Stanford University. Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Institutional Enablers of Energy System Transition: Lessons from Solar PV in Eight African Countries." Lessard, Donald R., Valerie J. Karplus, Ninad Rajpurkar, and Arun Singh. In Achieving Collective Ends with Limited Resources: Africas Struggle to Bridge the Infrastructure Gap, edited by Anne Stafford, Innocent Musonda, and Nuno A. P. Gil, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, Forthcoming. "Risk Management for Companies Operating in Emerging Markets." Lessard, Donald R. In Oxford Handbook on Managing in Emerging Economies, edited by Klaus Mayer and Robert Grosse, Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, Forthcoming. "Understanding the Impacts of Indirect Stakeholder Relationships - Stakeholder Value Network Analysis and Its Application to Large Engineering Projects." Lessard, Donald R., Wen Feng, Edward Crawley, Olivier de Weck, and Bruce Cameron. In Public-Private Partnerships for Infrastructure Development, edited by M.J. Garvin, Raymond Levitt, and Richard Scott, Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar, Forthcoming. "Megaprojects as Games of Innovation." Miller, Roger, Donald Lessard, and Vivek Sakhrani. In The Oxford Handbook of Megaproject Management, edited by Bent Flyvbjerg, 217-237. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2017. [Paper on SSRN]. "The Dynamic Capabilities of Meta-Multinationals." Lessard, Donald, David Teece, and Sohvi Leih. Global Strategy Journal Vol. 6, No. 3 (2016): 211-224. [Paper on SSRN]. "House of Project Complexity- Understanding Complexity in Large Engineering Projects." Lessard, Donald, Vivek Sakhrani and Roger Miller. Engineering Project Organization Journal Vol. 4, No. 4 (2014): 170-192. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
