Jayne Tan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jayne Tan linkedin Get in Touch jaynetan@mit.edu Title Lecturer, Global Economics and Management (GEM) About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Jayne Tan is a Lecturer in the Global Economics and Management Group at the MIT Sloan School of Management. She serves as an Action Learning Faculty Mentor for G-Lab (Global Entrepreneurship), H-Lab (Healthcare), EM Lab (Enterprise Management), China Lab, and India Lab. In addition, she is an Executive Coach and x360 Program Coach for the MIT Leadership Center. Her work supports MBA, Executive, and other MIT student programs.Jayne brings 20 years of general management experience in strategic analysis, business development, project management, capital raising, financial supervision, and operational execution for growth organizations. As an investment banker, she raised over $4 billion in growth equity capital working across industries, including healthcare, media, and technology. Jayne has also served as a strategy consultant to a spectrum of emergent startups, non-profits, and Fortune 100 companies.Jayne is also an Executive Coach and discovered her love of coaching through fitness. Her background of operating in high-pressure environments, coupled with her holistic coaching experience, enables Jayne to support executives not only in achieving organizational clarity and results, but also enhancing trust and teamwork in their relationships. She operates at the intersection of technical skills, self-awareness, and resilience to help clients develop the skills and mindset that they need to succeed.Jayne holds a BS in Chemical Engineering from Columbia University and an MBA from the MIT Sloan School of Management. The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
