Haoxiang Zhu | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Haoxiang Zhu curriculum vitae Support Staff Robert Kissinger (617) 253-7006 rkissing@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-623 zhuh@mit.edu (617) 253-2478 http://www.mit.edu/~zhuh/Zhu.html Title Gordon Y Billard Professor of Finance Associate Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Haoxiang Zhu is the Gordon Y Billard Professor of Management and Finance and an Associate Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management, and a Faculty Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He currently serves as a finance department editor ofManagement Scienceand as an associate editor of the Journal of Finance.His main research interests are broadly in asset pricing, especially market structure and market design. He has published research papers in the Journal of Finance, the Journal of Financial Economics, the Review of Economic Studies, and the Review of Financial Studies, among others. Zhu's research has won several awards, including the 2017 Amundi Pioneer Prize (First Prize) from the Journal of Finance, the 2016 AQR Insight Award (First Prize), the 2015 Kepos Capital Award for Best Paper on Investments from the Western Finance Association, and the 2013 Review of Financial Studies Young Researcher Prize. In 2016, he was named one of the 40 under 40 Best Business School Professors by Poets and Quants.Haoxiang Zhu actively participates in policy issues on financial markets and financial regulation. He has previously served as an academic expert for the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), and is currently a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago's Working Group on Financial Markets.He holds a BA in mathematics and computer science from the University of Oxford and a PhD in finance from Stanford University Graduate School of Business.Current Research Focus: Zhucontinues his work on financialmarket design, broadly defined.In one project, he finds that bank regulation has the unintended benefit of encouraging intermediaries to increase their use technology in lieu of balance sheet for more efficient liquidity provision.His work also analyzes the design of default management auctions of central counterparties, the failure of which would lead to systemic risk.More recently, hestudies how FinTech and BigTech competition to banks affects the functioning of credit markets, as well as the impact of data protection regulations. Applying theory to practice, Zhu actively engages in policy discussions related to the transparency and competitiveness of financial markets and the global transition away from LIBOR to robust risk-free rates. Honors Zhu wins Amundi Smith Breeden Prize Haoxiang Zhu has won the 2017 Amundi Smith Breeden Prize (First Prize) for the best paper in any area other than corporate finance in The Journal of Finance, which is the official publication of The American Finance Association. Zhus winning paper, co-authored with Darrell Duffie (Stanford) and Piotr Dworczak (University of Chicago), is entitled, Benchmarks in Search Markets (The Journal of Finance, 72(5):1983-2044). The award was presented at the 2018 Annual Meeting of the American Finance Association in Philadelphia. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Back-Running: Seeking and Hiding Fundamental Information in Order Flows." Yang, Liyan, and Haoxiang Zhu. Review of Financial Studies. Forthcoming. MarketWatch Blog. "Swap Trading after Dodd-Frank: Evidence from Index CDS." Riggs, Lynn, Esen Onur, David Reiffen, and Haoxiang Zhu. Journal of Financial Economics. Forthcoming. "Strategic Trading When Central Bank Intervention is Predictable." Yang, Liyan and Haoxiang Zhu, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6173-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, August 2020. "Mortgage Dollar Roll." Song, Zhaogang and Haoxiang Zhu. Review of Financial Studies Vol. 32, No. 8 (2019): 2955-2996. SSRN Preprint. "Quantitative Easing Auctions of Treasury Bonds." Song, Zhaogang and Haoxiang Zhu. Journal of Financial Economics Vol. 128, No. 1 (2018): 103-124. SSRN Preprint. "Non-Fundamental Speculation Revisited." Yang, Liyan, and Haoxiang Zhu. Journal of Finance Vol. 72, No. 6 (2017): 2759-2772. SSRN Preprint. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter How investors can play the Fed in market downturns New research shows aggressive Fed intervention in the financial markets can wind up increasing asset price volatility. Sep 16, 2020 Read Article MIT Sloan Experts Open letter to Congress regarding the coronavirus stimulus package MIT Sloan finance faculty write in support of a stimulus package that focuses on combating the Coronavirus pandemic directly as well as helping economically vulnerable households and small businesses which are most affected by the pandemic. However, unrestricted cash injection into large corporations, they say, would be a grave mistake. Mar 24, 2020 Read More Media Highlights Source: Profit & Loss Bailout for large corps a 'grave mistake,' say MIT professors Mar 24, 2020 Faculty: Andrew W. Lo Jonathan A. Parker Antoinette Schoar David Thesmar Haoxiang Zhu Source: Clear Admit A day in the life at MIT Sloan Oct 25, 2019 Faculty: John L. Akula Arnold I. Barnett Christopher F. Noe Haoxiang Zhu Louis Anthony Rodriques The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
