David D. Gamarnik | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty David D. Gamarnik linkedin Support Staff Marty Checchi (617) 324-4378 mchecchi@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-563 gamarnik@mit.edu (617) 253-7779 (617) 258-7579 http://web.mit.edu/gamarnik/www/home.html Title Nanyang Technological University Professor of Operations Research Professor, Operations Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Operations Research Center Laboratory for Information and Decision Sciences David Gamarnik is the Nanyang Technological University Professorof Operations Research at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research interests include applied probability and stochastic processes with application to queuing theory, theory of random combinatorial structures and algorithms, scheduling, and various business processes, including call centers, manufacturing, and communications networks.Gamarnik has served as a research staff member at the Department of Mathematical Sciences, IBM Research, where he worked on various projects with industrial applications, including disaster recovery, performance in business processes, call centers, and operational resilience. Gamarnik is a member of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, Bernoulli Society, INFORMS, and the American Mathematical Society, and serves on the editorial board of both Operations Research and the Annals of Applied Probability. He is the recipient of the 2004 Erlang Prize from the INFORMS Applied Probability Society, as well as two National Science Foundation grants in 2007.Gamarnik holds a BA in mathematics from New York University and a PhD in operations research from MIT. Publications Google Scholar "Explicit Construction of Rip Matrices is Ramsey-hard." Gamarnik, David. Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics.. Forthcoming. arXiv Preprint. "Sparse High-dimensional Isotonic Regression." David Gamarnik, and Julia Gaudio. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32 (NIPS 2019), edited by Alina Beygelzimer, Emily Fox, Florence d'Alch-Buc, Hanna Wallach, Hugo Larochelle, and Roman Garnett, Vancouver, Canada: December 2019. "High-Dimensional Linear Regression and Phase Retrieval via PSLQ Integer Relation Algorithm." David Gamarnik, and Eren C. Kizilda. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), Paris, France: July 2019. "Uniqueness of Gibbs Measures for Continuous Hardcore Models." Gamarnik, David and Kavita Ramanan. The Annals of Probability Vol. 47, No. 4 (2019): 1949-1981. "Suboptimality of Local Algorithms for a Class of Max-cut Problems." Chen, Wei-Kuo, David Gamarnik, Dmitry Panchenko, and Mustazee Rahman. The Annals of Probability Vol. 47, No. 3 (2019): 1587-1618. "Finding a Large Submatrix of a Gaussian Random Matrix." Gamarnik, David, and Quan Li. Annals of Statistics Vol. 46, No. 6A (2018): 2511-2561. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
