Negin (Nicki) Golrezaei | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Negin (Nicki) Golrezaei linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Samantha Arnold (617) 715-4822 arnolds@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-577 golrezae@mit.edu (617) 715-2622 http://www.mit.edu/~golrezae/ Title KDD Career Development Professor in Communications and Technology Assistant Professor, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Negin Golrezaei is theKDD Career Development Professor in Communications and Technology and an Assistant Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her current research interests are in the area of machine learning, statistical learning theory, mechanism design, and optimization algorithms with applications to revenue management, pricing, and online markets. Before joining MIT, Negin spent a year as a postdoctoral researcher at Google Research in New York where she worked with the Market Algorithm team to develop, design, and test new mechanisms and algorithms for online marketplaces.Negin is the recipient of a 2018 Google Faculty Research Award; 2017 George B. Dantzig Dissertation Award; 2017 INFORMS Revenue Management and Pricing Section Dissertation Prize; 2018 Elwood S. Buffa Doctoral Dissertation Award from the Decision Sciences Institute; University of Southern California (USC) Ph.D. Achievement Award (2017); USC CAMS Graduate Student Prize, for excellence in research with a substantial mathematical component (2017); Honorable mention in the 2016 MSOM Student Paper Competition; and USC Provost's Ph.D. Fellowship (2011).Negin received her BSc (2007) and MSc (2009) degrees in electrical engineering from the Sharif University of Technology, Iran, and a PhD (2017) in operations research from USC. Honors Golrezaei wins 2018 Google Faculty Research Award Negin Golrezaei has won a 2018 Google Faculty Research Award in Algorithms and Optimization. These awards facilitate interaction between Google and academia (both faculty and graduate students) and support cutting-edge technical academic research (in computer science, engineering, and related fields), for projects whose output will be made available to the research community. The winners were chosen from among over 900 proposals received from 40 countries and over 320 universities. Golrezaeis award will fund a graduate student for one year to work on her research project entitled, "Pricing and Bidding in Supply Chain of Auctions. Read More Publications Google Scholar "Dynamic Incentive-Aware Learning: Robust Pricing in Contextual Auctions." Golrezaei, Negin, Adel Javanmard, and Vahab Mirrokni. Operations Research. Forthcoming. SSRN Preprint. "Dynamic Pricing for Heterogeneous Time-Sensitive Customers." Golrezaei, Negin, Hamid Nazerzadeh, and Ramandeep S. Randhawa. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Efficient Policies and Mechanisms for Online Platforms." Golrezaei, Negin. PhD diss., University of Southern California, 2017. "Auctions with Dynamic Costly Information Acquisition." Golrezaei, Negin, and Hamid Nazerzadeh. Operations Research Vol. 65, No. 1 (2017): 130-144. Download Paper. "Scaling Behavior for Device-to-Device Communications With Distributed Caching." Golrezaei, Negin, Alexandros G. Dimakis, and, Andreas F. Molisch. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory Vol. 60, No. 7 (2014): 4286-4298. arXiv. "Real-Time Optimization of Personalized Assortments." Golrezaei, Negin, Hamid Nazerzadeh, and Paat Rusmevichientong. Management Science Vol. 60, No. 6 (2014): 1532-1551. SSRN. Load More Recent Insights MIT Sloan Experts How to produce cleaner data for robust pricing These days, a lot of people are talking about using data to make decisions. However, an often- overlooked aspect of data is that it cant always be trusted. Oct 13, 2020 Read More Press MIT Sloan professor designs model to limit price manipulation Prof. Golrezaei explains: We identified an algorithm that uses a binary signal to determine whether the seller wins in the prior auction. This limits manipulation by the buyer..." Mar 18, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Inside Big Data (Opinion Piece) How to produce cleaner data for robust pricing Jun 19, 2020 ...a lot of people are talking about using data to make decisions...an often- overlooked aspect of data is that it can't always be trusted." Faculty: Negin (Nicki) Golrezaei Source: The Realtime Report MIT professor develops search model for product rankings on online platf... Apr 1, 2020 Prof. Negin Golrezaei developed a search model that learns consumer preferences to optimize product rankings. Faculty: Negin (Nicki) Golrezaei The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
