Kristin J. Forbes | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Kristin J. Forbes curriculum vitae Support Staff Channa Yem (617) 324-7519 channay@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-416 kjforbes@mit.edu (617) 253-8996 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/kjforbes/ Title Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Professor of Management Professor, Global Economics and Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Global Economics and Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Kristin Forbes is the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Professor of Management and Global Economics at MITs Sloan School of Management.In 2014 she also became an External Member of the Monetary Policy Committee for the Bank of England. This dual role continues her tradition of combining academics with senior policy positions. From 2003 to 2005 Forbes served as a Member of the White Houses Council of Economic Advisers, where she was the youngest person to ever hold this position. From 2001-2002 she worked in the U.S. Treasury Department as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Quantitative Policy Analysis, Latin American and Caribbean Nations. She also was a member of the Governors Council of Economic Advisers for the State of Massachusetts from 2009-2014.Forbes was recently honored as one of the top 25 economists under the age of 45 who are shaping how we think about the global economy and in 2015 received a Bicentennial Medal from Williams College. She was previously named as a "Young Global Leader" as part of the World Economic Forum at Davos. Forbes is currently a research associate at the NBER, and a member of the Bellagio Group and Council on Foreign Relations.Forbes academic research addresses policy-related questions in international macroeconomics. Recent projects include work on capital flows, financial crises, contagion, exchange rates, capital controls, macroprudential regulation, foreign investment, and tax holidays. Forbes has chaired research projects on the Global Financial Crisis, Global Linkages and International Financial Contagion. She has won numerous teaching awards and teaches one of the most popular classes at MIT's Sloan School.Before joining MIT, Forbes worked at the World Bank and Morgan Stanley. Shegraduated summa cum laude from Williams College with a BA in economics and received her PhD in economics from MIT. Honors Queen Elizabeth bestows Forbes with Honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire Kristin Forbes has been named an Honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II for services to the British economy (recognizing Forbes outstanding service contributions from 2014 to 2017 as an External Member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England). Appointments to The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire reward contributions to the arts and sciences, work with charitable and welfare organizations, and public service.A CBE is among the most prestigious honors bestowed in the United Kingdom (after the highest, Knight or Dame).Awards given to non-UK citizens are honorary. Recipients of the award traditionally receive the insignia of the Order in London at Buckingham Palace, in an Investiture ceremony presided over by Queen Elizabeth II (or her designate, such as the Prince of Wales). Read More Kristin Forbes receives Bicentennial Medal Kristin Forbes has received a Bicentennial Medal from Williams College. The award is given to a small number of alumni each year for distinguished achievement in their fields. Read More Kristin Forbes has been named a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations Kristin Forbes was named a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), a nonpartisan and independent national membership organization, think tank, and publisher. The CFR is dedicated to being a resource for policymakers and interested citizens to help them better understand the world and the foreign policy choices facing the United States and other countries. Read More Kristin Forbes has been named as a member of the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors Kristin Forbes has been named by Governor Deval Patrick as a member of the Governor's Council of Economic Advisors. Read More Kristin Forbes was recently selected to be a member of the Trilateral Commission "The Trilateral Commission is a non-governmental, policy-oriented discussion group of about 350 distinguished citizens from Western Europe, North America and Pacific Asia formed to encourage mutual understanding and closer cooperation among these three regions on common problems." Read More Kristin Forbes and Simon Johnson have recently been appointed to the Congressional Budget Office's Panel of Economic Advisers Kristin Forbes and Simon Johnson have recently been appointed to the Congressional Budget Office's Panel of Economic Advisers. The Congressional Budget Office is the non-partisan organization that provides the formal analysis for Congress -- most importantly the estimates of the costs of different proposals that are then used as inputs for proposed legislation and the Congressional budget process. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "A Trendy Approach to UK Inflation Dynamics." Forbes, Kristin J. Lewis Kirkham, and Konstantinos Theodoridis. The Manchester School. Forthcoming. "Capital Flows, Monetary Policy and Globalisation." Kristin J. Forbes. In ECB Colloquium in Honor of Benot Cur, Frankfurt, Germany: Forthcoming. "Inflation Dynamics: Dead, Dormant, Or Determined Abroad?" Kristin J. Forbes. In Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Fall 2019 Meetings, Washington, DC: Forthcoming. Brookings blog on the paper. "International Evidence on Shock-Dependent Exchange Rate Pass-Through." Forbes, Kristin, Ida Hjortsoe, and Tsvetelina Nenova. IMF Economic Review. Forthcoming. Data Replication Files. Latest version. "The International Aspects of Macroprudential Policy." Forbes, Kristin J. Annual Review of Economics Vol. 13,. Forthcoming. SSRN. "Inflation Dynamics: Dead, Dormant, Or Determined Abroad?" Forbes, Kristin J. Brookings Papers on Economic Activity. Forthcoming. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Press MITs Golub Center for Finance and Policy names judges for the Miriam Pozen Prize Judges are Mohamed A. El-Erian, Kristin J. Forbes, Deborah J. Lucas, Robert C. Merton, Ronald P. OHanley, Henry M. Paulson, Jr., Raghuram R. Rajan, and Robert Zoellick. Jan 9, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter Shifting risks could trigger the next financial shock To avoid another fiscal crisis, pay attention to risks hiding in shadow financial systems, says MIT Sloans Kristin Forbes. Feb 8, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Financial Times Central bankers grapple with changed landscape at Jackson Hole Aug 29, 2020 Bailey's argument was that QE is a...powerful tool, especially when markets are disorderly...No one's really made that argument the same way. Faculty: Kristin J. Forbes Source: The Washington Post We need smart solutions to mitigate the coronavirus's impact. Here are 4... Jun 18, 2020 "...many countries might soon face a debt crisis on top of their health and economic crises especially if growth recovers slowly." Faculty: Kristin J. Forbes Source: The New York Times | The Upshot Should we fear post-pandemic inflation? May 28, 2020 I think trying to predict where inflation is going to be in a few years is a mug's game, said Kristin Forbes Faculty: Kristin J. Forbes Source: The New York Times (Source: Reuters) IMF's Georgieva creates external advisory panel on pandemic Apr 10, 2020 Faculty: Kristin J. Forbes Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
