Jason Jay | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Jason Jay twitter linkedin Support Staff Dominic Farello (617) 324-6246 dfarello@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-435 jjay@mit.edu (617) 253-0594 Title Senior Lecturer, Sustainability Director, Sustainability Initiative at MIT Sloan 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Sloan Sustainability Initiative Jason Jay is a Senior Lecturer at the MIT Sloan School of Management and Director of the Sustainability Initiative at MIT Sloan. He teaches courses on leadership, strategy, and innovation for sustainable business. Jason engages students and alumni in hands-on projects with leading companies and organizations. These efforts help build a community of innovators for sustainability that includes MIT students and alumni, faculty and researchers,with partners in business, government, NGOs, and hybrid organizations.Jasons research focuses on how people navigate the tensions inherent in the quest for sustainability, as they simultaneously pursue their own self-interest and the flourishing of human and other life. This work includes deep case studies of cross-sectoral collaboration and hybrid organizations that combine social and business goals. These case studies have been published in the Academy of Management Journal and California Management Review. He also contributes to the MIT Sloan Management Review, Stanford Social Innovation Review, and Greenbiz on the topic of sustainability-oriented innovation (SOI). A key finding of his research is that social innovation occurs through authentic conversations that hold the tension between divergent values and perspectives. With Gabriel Grant, he is the author of Breaking Through Gridlock: The Power of Conversation in a Polarized World.As a facilitator and consultant, Jason has helped advance sustainability strategy with companies like Biogen, Novartis, and Bose. He is a research partner and facilitator for the EDF Climate Corps and its network of companies. He has contributed to the strategy and curriculum of the Harvard Kennedy Schools Social Innovation and Change Initiativeas a faculty affiliate.Prior to MIT, Jay ran an internet startup, traveled around the world, taught kindergarten in a progressive preschool, and worked as a consultant with Dialogos International, where he consulted on leadership development and organizational change for major international corporations and NGO's including BP and the World Bank.Jay holds an AB in psychology and a Master's in education from Harvard University, and a PhD in Organization Studies from the MIT Sloan School of Management. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication Breaking Through Gridlock: The Power of Conversation in a Polarized World. Jay, Jason, and Gabriel Grant. Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler, 2017. Featured Publication "Sustainability-Oriented Innovation: A Bridge to Breakthroughs." Jay, Jason Jesurum, Sergio Gonzalez and Mathew Swibel. Blog. MIT Sloan Management Review, November 2015. "Navigating the Paradoxes of Sustainability." Jay, Jason, Sara Soderstrom, and Gabriel Grant. In Oxford Handbook of Organizational Paradox, 353-372. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2017. "The Paris Accord is #OurAccord." Jay, Jason. HuffPost, December 15, 2016. "How Agribusiness Can Avoid the Mistakes of Clean Tech." Nolet, Sarah, and Jason Jesurum Jay. Stanford Social Innovation Review, August 10, 2016. "Which SOI Innovation is Right for You?" Jay, Jason Jesurum, Sergio Gonzalez, and Marine Gerard. Blog. MIT Sloan Management Review, March 2016. Load More Recent Insights Press Aggregate Confusion Project: Improving the quality of ESG measurement The project is charting a course toward more rigorous, coherent methods for ESG integration, with four key goals that are relevant to asset owners and managers, as well as regulators. Sep 8, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter How climate change affects supply chain resilience Climate risks are mounting. Here are 5 steps to harden your supply chain and master climate change adaptation. Feb 11, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Wall Street Journal Pro | Private Equity (Subscription Required) Massachusetts pension overseers join MIT Sloan ESG initiative Sep 14, 2020 Research from the Sloan Sustainability Initiative is part of a project that aims to clarify ESG measurement for investors. Faculty: Jason Jay Source: Psychology Today (Opinion Piece) COVID conversations Apr 6, 2020 Faculty: Jason Jay Source: Pensions & Investments Database will track carbon footprint of financial firms Apr 1, 2019 Faculty: Jason Jay Source: The Christian Science Monitor Yes, you can discuss politics at the holiday table. Here's how. Dec 20, 2018 Faculty: Jason Jay Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
