Danielle Li | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Danielle Li curriculum vitae Support Staff Stephanie Taverna (617) 253-2676 staverna@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-484 d_li@mit.edu (617) 253-6618 https://danielle-li.github.io Title Class of 1922 Career Development Professor Associate Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Danielle Li is the Class of 1922 Career Development Professor and an Associate Professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Her research interests are in the economics of innovation, productivity, and organizational economics.Her work focuses on 1) understanding how organizations weigh expert advice and quantitative data when making investment decisions and 2) assessing the value of such investments on innovation in the life sciences in particular. For example, a recent project studies how machine learning algorithms impact firm HR practices and worker productivity; another examines whether/how public investments in biomedical research shape private sector pharmaceutical development.Danielle is also a Faculty Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Prior to coming to MIT, she was an assistant professor of entrepreneurship at Harvard Business School.She holds an AB in mathematics from Harvard College and PhD in economics from MIT. Honors Li wins best paper award Danielle Li has won the 2019 American Economic Journal Best Paper Award for AEJ: Applied Economics. Lis winning paper, Expertise versus Bias in Evaluation: Evidence from the NIH (AEJ: Applied Economics, 9 (2), April 2017, pp. 60-92), was also featured in the 2017 American Economic Association Research Highlight, How Can We Make Sure the Best Medical Science Gets Funded? Read More Publications "Internal Deadlines, Drug Approvals, and Safety Problems." Cohen, Lauren, Umit G. Gurun, and Danielle Li. American Economic Review: Insights. Forthcoming. "Trust, Collaboration, and Economic Growth." Kondo, Jiro, Danielle Li, and Dimitris Papanikolaou. Management Science. Forthcoming. "Insurance Design and Pharmaceutical Innovation." Li, Danielle, Leila Agha, and Soomi Kim, Working Paper. 2020. "Hiring as Exploration." Li, Danielle, Lindsey Raymond, and Peter Bergman, Working Paper. 2020. "Missing Novelty in Drug Development." Krieger, Josh, Danielle Li, and Dimitris Papanikolaou, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5622-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, January 2019. "Public R&D Investments and Private Sector Patenting: Evidence from NIH Funding Rules." Azoulay, Pierre, Joshua S. Graff Zivin, Danielle Li, and Bhaven N. Sampat. Review of Economic Studies Vol. 86, No. 1 (2019): 117-152. Also NBER Working Paper #20889. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Exploration-based algorithms boost hiring diversity A new approach analyzed resumes for a Fortune 500 firm and bested traditional screening practices. Sep 30, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter What to know about MIT Sloans 5 new faculty members New professors explore the consequences of financial reporting, how labor markets act during periods of turmoil, and more. Aug 21, 2017 Read Article Media Highlights Source: Fast Company (Opinion Piece) Design of hiring algorithms can double diversity in firms Nov 16, 2020 "...an ongoing concern is the potential for automated approaches to codify existing human biases..." Faculty: Danielle Li Source: Axios When robots are recruiters Oct 20, 2020 Using AI to recruit isn't inherently bad, says Danielle Li...It's about using the right kind of algorithm. Faculty: Danielle Li Source: VOX (Opinion Piece) Promotions and the Peter Principle Apr 24, 2019 Faculty: Danielle Li The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
