Emilio J. Castilla | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Emilio J. Castilla linkedin Support Staff Lena Ngor (617) 253-3831 lngor@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-332 ecastilla@mit.edu (617) 253-0286 (617) 253-2660 http://web.mit.edu/ecastill/www/ Title NTU Professor of Management Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Good Companies, Good Jobs Emilio J. Castilla is the NTU Professor of Management and a Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Castilla is currently the head of the Work and Organization Studies Group. He joined the MIT Sloan faculty in 2005, after being a faculty member in the Management Department of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He is a member of the Institute for Work and Employment Research at MIT, as well as a Research Fellow at the Wharton Financial Institutions Center, and at the Center for Human Resources at the Wharton School.His research primarily focuses on the sociological aspects of work and employment. Castilla is particularly interested in studying how social and organizational processes influence key organizational and employment processes and outcomes over time. He tackles his research questions by examining different empirical settings with longitudinal datasets, both at the individual and company levels. His focus is on the recruitment, hiring, development, and job mobility of employees within and across organizations and locations, as well as on the impact of teamwork and social relations on performance and innovation. His work has been published in top academic journals and edited volumes, including Administrative Science Quarterly, Organization Science, American Journal of Sociology, and American Sociological Review. He has also written a book on the use of longitudinal methods in social science research (Elsevier/Academic Press).Castilla has taught in various degree programs at MIT Sloan, the Wharton School, and a number of other international universities. His teaching interests include Strategic Human Resource Management, Strategies for People Analytics, Leading Effective Organizations, Talent Management, Career Management, and Organizational Behavior. In addition to teaching full-time MBA and executive courses, he has taught several PhD-level courses. Honors Richard Beckhard Memorial Prize awarded to Emilio J. Castilla Emilio J. Castilla has received the 2017 Richard Beckhard Memorial Prize, awarded to the most outstanding MIT Sloan Management Review article on planned change and organizational development published in the period from fall 2015 through summer 2016. Castillas winning paper is entitled Achieving Meritocracy in the Workplace. The prize was established in 1984 by MIT Sloan faculty in honor of Professor Richard Beckhard, a faculty member for over two decades, who was a founder and an architect of the field of organizational development. The MIT Sloan judges thought Castillas article was well aligned with the thinking of Richard Beckhard, who knew that organizational change was often more complicated than it seemed Castillas call for continuous monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes is very much in line with what Dick would have recommended. The award was announced in an MIT Sloan Management Review blog post and in the fall 2017 issue. Read More Publications "The Production of Merit: How Managers Understand and Apply Merit in the Workplace." Castilla, Emilio J. and Aruna Ranganathan. Organization Science Vol. 31, No. 4 (2020): 909935. "Best in Class? The Returns on Endorsement in Business School Admissions." Castilla, Emilio J., and Ben A. Rissing. Administrative Science Quarterly Vol. 64, No. 1 (2019): 230-270. "Meritocracy." Castilla, Emilio J. In The SAGE Encyclopedia of Political Behavior, edited by Fathali M. Moghaddam, 479-482. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2017. "Introduction to a Special Issue of Inequality in the Workplace: What Works?" Tolbert, Pamela S., and Emilio J. Castilla. ILR Review Vol. 70, No. 1 (2017): 3-15. "Testing Attestations: U.S. Unemployment and Immigrant Work Authorizations." Rissing, Ben A., and Emilio J. Castilla. Industrial and Labor Relations Review Vol. 69, No. 5 (2016): 1081-1113. "Achieving Meritocracy in the Workplace." Castilla, Emilio J. MIT Sloan Management Review, June 2016. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 18 quotes for business and management from 2020 Amid the chaos of 2020, some wisdom shone through. Here are words worth rereading from business leaders, scholars, and scientists. Dec 10, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter People analytics, explained Taking a data-driven approach to talent-related decisions helps companies pivot quickly in a crisis or simply as an agile business strategy. May 12, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The New York Times It is possible to reform the police Sep 8, 2020 Research by Emilio Castilla shows that if you want to move an organization away from biased practices, transparency and accountability are key. Faculty: Emilio J. Castilla Source: Boston Review Six labor policies we need now Sep 4, 2020 "...we are seeing in many of our students a new determination to help shape a fairer, more equitable, and sustainable business world. Faculty: Erin Kelly Emilio J. Castilla Thomas Kochan Barbara Dyer Paul Osterman Nathan Wilmers Source: CNN Chile | Futuro360 (Video) "Data Analytics Certificate": Universidad de Chile y MIT cierran con xi... Feb 17, 2020 Faculty: Emilio J. Castilla Roberto Rigobon Source: Expresso (Portugal) Emilio Castilla, professor do MIT: "A meritocracia pode criar novas form... Nov 23, 2019 Faculty: Emilio J. Castilla The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
