Dean Eckles | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Dean Eckles twitter curriculum vitae Support Staff Katie Means (617) 324-4253 kmeans@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-541 ECKLES@MIT.EDU (617) 258-9102 http://deaneckles.com Title Mitsubishi Career Development Professor Associate Professor, Marketing 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Marketing Academic Area Management Science Dean Eckles is the Mitsubishi Career Development Professorand an Associate Professor of Marketing at MIT Sloan. He is affiliate faculty at the Institute for Data, Systems & Society in the Schwarzman College of Computing.His substantive research examines people's interactions with and through communication technologies, especially the ways these technologies mediate, amplify, and direct social influence. This work sometimes requires or benefits from new analytical methods, so Eckles also works on applied statistics, design of field experiments, and causal inference.Prior to joining MIT, he was a scientist at Facebook, where he worked on many product areas and analytical methods, including News Feed, messaging, advertising, tools for randomized experiments, and survey methods. Eckles previously worked in research at Nokia and Yahoo.Eckles received his BA in philosophy, a BS and MS in cognitive science, an MS in statistics, and a PhD in communication, all from Stanford University. Honors Aral and Eckles win for a working paper Sinan Aral and Dean Eckles have won the 2020 INFORMS (Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences) eBusiness Section Best Paper Award.Their winning working paper, Targeting for Long-Term Outcomes: Evidence from Large-Scale Field Experiments, was co-authored with Jeremy Yang (their MIT Sloan PhD student) and Paramveer Dhillon (University of Michigan), who is a former MIT Sloan postdoc and research associate. Read More Eckles wins Amazon Research Award Dean Eckles has won a 2018 Amazon Research Award, which recognizes and funds outstanding research projects conducted by PhD students or postdocs under the supervision of the faculty member awardee.Research areas considered for the award are computer vision; economics; knowledge management and data quality; machine learning algorithms and theory; natural language processing; online advertising; operations research and optimization; personalization; robotics; search and information retrieval; security, privacy and abuse prevention; and speech. Eckless awarded research project is entitled, Complex modeling and inference with online rating data. The award winners and projects appear on this Amazon Research Awards page Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Estimating Peer Effects in Networks with Peer Encouragement Designs." Eckles, Dean, Ren F. Kizilcec, and Eytan Bakshy. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Vol. 113, No. 27 (2016): 7316-7322. Featured Publication "Bias and High-Dimensional Adjustment in Observational Studies of Peer Eects." Eckles, Dean and Eytan Bakshy, Working Paper. 2018. "Targeting for Long-term Outcomes." Yang, Jeremy, Dean Eckles, Paramveer Dhillon, and Sinan Aral, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6224-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, October 2020. "Interdependence and the Cost of Uncoordinated Responses to COVID-19." Holtz, David, Michael Zhao, Seth G. Benzell, Cathy Y. Cao, M. Amin Rahimian, Jeremy Yang, Jennifer Allen, Avinash Collis, Alex Moehring, Tara Sowrirajan, Dipayan Ghosh, Yunhao Zhang, Paramveer S. Dhillon, Christos Nicolaides, Dean Eckles, and Sinan Aral, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6111-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "Protecting Elections from Social Media Manipulation." Aral, Sinan K. and Dean Eckles. Science Vol. 365, No. 6456 (2019): 858-861. "Bootstrap Thompson Sampling and Sequential Decision Problems in the Behavioral Sciences." Eckles, Dean, and Maurits Kaptein. Sage Open Vol. 9, No. 2 (2019): 1-12. Download Paper. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about social media and misinformation Fake news and misinformation peak online during presidential election years. Experts look at how they spread and what can be done to stop them. Oct 5, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Los Angeles Times (Audio) Column: How will Russian manipulation affect the 2020 election? We still... Sep 11, 2019 Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Dean Eckles Source: Quartz There will be election manipulation in 2020. Scientists can't stop it, b... Sep 3, 2019 Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Dean Eckles Source: Yahoo Finance We need to protect democracy: MIT professor Aug 31, 2019 Faculty: Dean Eckles Sinan Kayhan Aral Source: The Boston Globe Are social media misinformation campaigns affecting elections? MIT resea... Aug 30, 2019 Faculty: Sinan Kayhan Aral Dean Eckles The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
