Deborah L. Ancona | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Deborah L. Ancona Support Staff Ieva Paulauskaite (617) 324-7368 ieva@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-434 ancona@mit.edu (617) 605-4397 (617) 253-2660 Title Seley Distinguished Professor of Management Professor, Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives MIT Center for Collective Intelligence MIT Leadership Center Deborah Ancona is the Seley Distinguished Professor of Management, a Professor of Organization Studies, and the Founder of the MIT Leadership Center at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Her pioneering research into how successful teams operate has highlighted the critical importance of managing outside, as well as inside, the teams boundary. This research directly led to the concept of X-Teams as a vehicle for driving innovation within large organizations. Anconas work also focuses on the concept of distributed leadership and on the development of research-based tools, practices, and teaching/coaching models that enable organizations to foster creative leadership at every level.She is the author of the book, X-Teams: How to Build Teams That Lead, Innovate, and Succeed (Harvard Business School Press) and the related article, In Praise of the Incomplete Leader (Harvard Business Review). In addition to X-Teams, her studies of team performance have also been published in the Administrative Science Quarterly, the Academy of Management Journal, Organization Science, and the MIT Sloan Management Review. Her previous book, Managing for the Future: Organizational Behavior and Processes (South-Western College Publishing), centers on the skills and processes needed in todays diverse and changing organization. Ancona has served as a consultant on leadership and innovation to companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Bose, Takeda, Li & Fung, OCP, Accenture, ASA, and has served on the Board of the Penn Graduate School of Education and the working group of the Canadian Council of Academies.Ancona holds a BA and an MS in psychology from the University of Pennsylvania and a PhD in management from Columbia University. Honors Ancona wins Jamieson Prize Deborah Ancona, along with Bob Pindyck, was awarded the 2018Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching, established to honor educational innovation and excellence.The Jamieson Prize for Excellence in Teaching Award isthe most prestigious teaching prize offered by the School. The award was established in 2006 and is awarded each year to two MIT Sloan faculty members, as well as two electrical engineering and computer science faculty members, for their contributions to educational excellence at MIT. Read More Publications SSRN "Five Rules for Leading in a Digital World." Ancona, Deborah. MIT Sloan Management Review, January 2020. "Walking the Line Between Creativity and Chaos." Ancona, Deborah, and Kate Isaacs. Latin Trade,, October 20, 2019. "How to Give Your Team the Right Amount of Autonomy." Ancona, Deborah, and Kate Isaacs. Harvard Business Review, July 2019. "The 3 Types of Leaders of Innovative Companies." Ancona, Deborah, and Kate Isaacs. HBR Ideacast, July 2019. "Nimble Leadership." Ancona, Deborah, Elaine Backman, and Kate Isaacs. Harvard Business Review, July 2019. "The Secret Ingredient for Great Leadership: Sensemaking." Ancona, Deborah. Latin Trade, September 2018. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter 5 business tips from MIT Sloan Management Review Todays leaders must meet critical short-term business needs without neglecting long-term challenges for technology or organizational modernization. Oct 27, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 8 new insights from MIT Sloan Management Review Start the new year with new questions and new ideas from the magazine. Jan 7, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: CliffCentral (Podcast) The science of change with MIT professor, Dr. Deborah Ancona Oct 22, 2020 MIT prof. Deborah Ancona speaks about the Immunity to Change...Its hard, but you can change when you understand it. Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Source: Latin Trade Magazine (Opinion Piece) 5 things leaders need to do in an uncertain world Aug 24, 2020 "The world is changing, and leaders need to adapt...they need to evolve their leadership behaviors to survive. Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Source: Chief Executive Update your people OS Jul 6, 2020 Managers now realize they need to engage and motivate the bottom parts of the organization to lead upwards with their ideas and innovations." Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Source: MIT Sloan Management Review (Opinion Piece) Five rules for leading in a digital world Oct 28, 2019 Faculty: Deborah L. Ancona Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
