Thomas Magnanti | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Thomas Magnanti Get in Touch Building 32-D610A magnanti@mit.edu (617) 253-6604 (617) 258-8682 http://web.mit/edu/engineering/deans/magnanti.html Title Institute Professor Professor, Operations Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Thomas Magnanti is an Institute Professor and a Professor of Operations Research at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Magnanti is an excellent source on teaching and researching the theory and application of large-scale optimization systems, including communications systems, production planning and scheduling, transportation planning, facility location, logistics, and network design. He is the co-author of two textbooks, Applied Mathematical Programming (Addison-Wesley, 1977) and Network Flows: Theory, Algorithms, and Applications (Prentice Hall, 1993). Magnanti holds a BS in chemical engineering from Syracuse University as well as an MS in statistics, an MS in mathematics, and a PhD in operations research from Stanford University. Honors Magnanti and Levi win Kuhn Award Tom Magnanti and Retsef Levi have received the 2016 Harold W. Kuhn Award, an annual prize which recognizes an exceptional paper published in Naval Research Logistics during the previous three years. Their winning paper, co-authored with Jack Muckstadt (Cornell University assistant professor), Danny Segev (University of Haifa), and Eric Zarybnisky (MIT SM 03, PhD 11), is entitled Maintenance Scheduling for Modular Systems: Modeling and Algorithms." Read More Publications "Scheduling with Testing." Levi, Retsef, Thomas Magnanti, and Yaron Shaposhnik. Management Science Vol. 65, No. 2 (2019): 776-793. "Maintenance Scheduling for Modular Systems New Models and Algorithms." Levi, Retsef, Thomas Magnanti, Jack Muckstadt, Danny Segev and Eric Zarybnisky. Naval Research Logistics Vol. 61, No. 6 (2014): 472-488. "Computing Fixed Points by Averaging." Magnanti, Thomas and Georgia Perakis. In Transportation and Network Analysis Current Trends, 181-198. New York, NY: Springer US, 2002. "The Orthogonality Theorem and the Strong-f-Monotonicity Condition for Variational Inequality Algorithms." Magnanti, Thomas and Georgia Perakis. SIAM Journal on Optimization Vol. 7, No. 1 (1997): 248-273. "Averaging Schemes for Variational Inequalities and Systems of Equations." Magnanti, Thomas and Georgia Perakis. Mathematics of Operations Research Vol. 22, No. 3 (1997): 568-587. "Industry and Universities: New Partners on the Endless Frontier." Hanson, William, Thomas Magnanti, and Donald B. Rosenfield. In Reinventing the University, edited by Jillinda Kidwell and Sandra L. Johnson, New York, NY: Wiley, 1996. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
