Thomas Kochan | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Thomas Kochan curriculum vitae Support Staff Lisa Barone (617) 324-7626 lbarone@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-334 tkochan@mit.edu (617) 253-6689 (617) 253-2660 http://mitsloan.mit.edu/iwer Title George Maverick Bunker Professor of Management Professor, Work and Organization Studies Co-Director, MIT Sloan Institute for Work and Employment Research 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Institute for Work and Employment Research Good Companies, Good Jobs Thomas Kochan is the George Maverick Bunker Professor of Management,a Professor of Work and Employment Research, and the CoDirector of the MIT Sloan Institute for Work and Employment Research at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Kochan focuses on the need to update Americas work and employment policies, institutions, and practices to catch up with a changing workforce and economy. His recent work calls attention to the challenges facing working families in meeting their responsibilities at work, at home, and in their communities. Through empirical research, he demonstrates that fundamental changes in the quality of employee and labor-management relations are needed to address Americas critical problems in industries ranging from healthcare to airlines to manufacturing. His most recent book is Shaping the Future of Work (Business Experts Press, 2016).Kochan holds a BBA in personnel management as well as an MS and a PhD in industrial relations from the University of Wisconsin. Honors Kochan wins prestigious mentoring award Tom Kochan has won the Thomas A. Mahoney Mentoring Award from the Human Resources Division of the Academy of Management. This annual award recognizes Kochans record of extensive and distinguished work mentoring PhD students (chairing dissertation committees for 24 students and serving on the dissertation committees of 20 others), which demonstrates not only his dedication to his students, but also his long-term impact on the field through them. The award citation notes that Kochans past doctoral students highly value his enabling, inclusive and empowering mentoring style and his ability to provide tremendous emotional support to his students. This award is sponsored by the Center for Executive Succession at the University of South Carolinas Darla Moore School of Business. The award was presented during the Academy of Management Annual Meeting. A video of Kochans full acceptance speech, as well as some highlighted quotes from his remarks can be viewed in this article of the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan. A video of Kochans full acceptance speech, as well as some highlighted quotes from his remarks can be viewed in this article of the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan. Read More Kochan wins Aspen Institute Award Professor Thomas Kochan is one of several faculty members at MIT Sloan who have won the 2019 Ideas Worth Teaching Award from The Aspen Institutes Business & Society Program. The other MIT Sloan winners are Barbara Dyer, Leigh Hafrey, and Christine Kelly. This award recognizes 10 exceptional courses, and honors faculty who are redefining business education, providing learning experiences that equip managers of tomorrow with the context, skills, and decision-making capabilities needed to lead in an increasingly complex business environment and world.The award celebrates innovative teaching that challenges conventional thinking and tests new approaches to divisive issues, rethinking the path forward for business and society and preparing students to make business decisions that create both financial and social value. The winning course, 15.S02 Bridging the American Divides: Work Community and Culture USA Lab, is MIT Sloans U.S.-focused Action Learning Lab, developed by the Good Companies, Good Jobs Initiative at MIT Sloan in partnership with the MIT Mens et Manus America Initiative and MIT Sloan Action Learning. Read More Kochan wins ILERA Academic Excellence Award Thomas Kochan is the first-ever winner of the International Labour and Employment Relations Association Academic Excellence Award. This award, which will be given every three years, was created to recognize outstanding academic achievements in the field of labor and employment relations. The award selection committee, comprised of distinguished scholars from around the world, selected Kochan in recognition of his lifelong contributions to the field. Read More Frances Perkins Center Honors Kochan The Frances Perkins Center has named Tom Kochan as its 2018 Intelligence and Courage Award recipient, recognizing his outstanding work in the areas of social justice and economic security. These are causes to which Frances Perkins, the first female Cabinet secretary, as President Franklin D. Roosevelts Secretary of Labor, devoted her career. Perkins was the author of many foundational New Deal labor and economic reforms. The awards name derives from a 1929 speech when Perkins pledged (as a New York State Industrial Commissioner): I promise to use what brains I have to meet problems with intelligence and courage. Frances Perkins Center Board Member Allison Beck wrote: Tom has dedicated his lifes work to the challenges facing working families. His research, scholarship, and teaching reflect the intelligence and courage with which Tom has always met the problems of our times. Read More Tom Kochan receives the 2016 LERA Lifetime Achievement Award Tom Kochan has received the 2016 LERA (Labor and Employment Relations Association) Lifetime Achievement Award,recognizing Toms many years of outstanding contributions to the field of Industrial Relations and Human Resources. The award recipient is selected by the LERA President, who said of Kochan, He is a brilliant strategist and a treasure in our world of labor and employment relations which includes conflict resolution in the community at large. Read More Tom Kochan wins Aspen Institute Faculty Pioneer Award Tom Kochan has received the prestigious 2015 Aspen Institute Faculty Pioneer Lifetime Achievement Award, recognizing his contributions as an educator at the vanguard of teaching and scholarship about business practices that contribute to an economy that works for all. Read More Tom Kochan awarded honorary degree Tom Kochan has been awarded a Doctor of Science in Economics honorary degree by the University of Sydney. This highest form of honor and recognition bestowed by the institution is given in recognition of Tom's "distinguished achievements throughout [his] professional life". Read More Tom Kochan has been elected to the National Academy of Arbitrators Tom Kochan has been elected to the National Academy of Arbitrators, whose members are chosen by involved parties to hear and decide labor and employment arbitration cases in private industry, the public sector, and non-profits in both the United States and Canada. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "It is not technology that will steal your job." Kochan, Thomas. The Irish Times, January 10, 2019. "Worker Voice in America: Is There a Gap between What Workers Expect and What They Experience?" Kochan, Thomas A., Duanyi Yang, William T. Kimball, and Erin L. Kelly. Industrial and Labor Relations Review Vol. 72, No. 1 (2019): 3-38. Download Preprint. "New Forms of Worker Voice in the 21st Century." Avins, Jeremy, Megan Larcom, and Jenny Weissbourd, with Thomas Kochan (Advisor), Working Paper. 2018. An Introduction to U.S. Collective Bargaining and Labor Relations. Henry C. Katcz, Thomas Kochan, and Alexander J.S. Colvin. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University ILR Press, 2017. "What Trump should do now that Andy Puzder withdrew his nomination for Secretary of Labor." Kochan, Thomas. MIT Sloan Experts. MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2017. "Updating the Transformation of American Industrial Relations." Kochan, Thomas, Harry C. Katz, and Robert B. McKersie. by Thomas Kochan, Harry C. Katz, and Robert B. McKersie. ILR Review, October 1, 2016. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT to launch "Shaping Work of the Future," a free MITx online course Participants may enroll at any time throughout the year and work at their own pace starting on January 7, 2020 Jan 6, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 18 quotes for business and management from 2019 Top of mind at MIT Sloan this year: The future of work, climate change, digital transformation, and, above all, leadership. Dec 9, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) How Biden can heal America's divisions at work Nov 25, 2020 By focusing on improving Americans' experiences on the job, a Biden administration can make the workplace a channel for healing a divided nation. Faculty: Thomas Kochan Barbara Dyer Source: GBH News Women, people of color disproportionately affected by economic impacts o... Nov 10, 2020 The most important thing to do is to get money in the hands of the most vulnerable people." Faculty: Thomas Kochan Source: CNBC How Amazon keeps a close eye on employee activism to head off unions Oct 24, 2020 Amazon controls everything from bathroom breaks to communication...If a union comes in, they're going to lose some of that control." Faculty: Thomas Kochan Source: WGBH With no stimulus check until after election, experts say Massachusetts' ... Oct 7, 2020 Thomas Kochan said that economic support is essential "both on a humane standpoint, but also to keep the economy from going further into a tank. Faculty: Thomas Kochan Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
