Edward Roberts | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Edward Roberts curriculum vitae Support Staff Judith Graham-Robey (617) 253-6680 jgrobey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-440 eroberts@mit.edu (617) 253-4934 Title David Sarnoff Professor of Management of Technology Professor, Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Founder and Chair, Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Faculty Director, Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Technological Innovation, Entrepreneurship, and Strategic Management Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship Edward B. Roberts is the David Sarnoff Professor of Management of Technology and Founder/Chair of the MIT Entrepreneurship Center (now renamed as the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship). A long-time expert on entrepreneurial endeavors, Edward Roberts has literally written the two bookends on high-tech business creation and growth. His latest, Celebrating Entrepreneurs: How MIT Nurtured Pioneering Entrepreneurs Who Built Great Companies (Amazon, 2020), describes the history of MITs transformation into an entrepreneurial juggernaut, led by Roberts over a 50+ years period. The book then delves in depth into 4 industries founded by MIT faculty and alums: life sciences and biotechnology; the Internet; from CAD-CAM to robotics; and modern finance, including venture capital. He presents the entrepreneurs who created these industries (and several more, e.g. electronics and software) and in their own words they describe the struggles and strategies that led to great successes.Roberts much earlier Entrepreneurs in High-Technology: Lessons from MIT and Beyond (Oxford University Press, 1991), was the first book on entrepreneurship based entirely on extensive research studies of hundreds of entrepreneurs and their firms. It won the Association of American Publishers Award for Outstanding Book in Business and Management.Eds own entrepreneurship is as prolific in academia as in industry. Roberts was a founding member of the MIT System Dynamics Group, was Founder and is still Chair of the MIT Entrepreneurship Center, and was a founder and for over 30 years chaired MIT Sloan's Management of Technological Innovation and Entrepreneurship Group. He co-founded and for nearly 20 years chaired the mid-career MIT Management of Technology (MOT) Program, MITs first graduate program with degrees offered jointly by two Schools. Most recently he co-created and directs the MIT Sloan Entrepreneurship & Innovation (E&I) MBA Track, which annually enrolls about 35 percent of the entering MBA students. During the past almost 60 years, Roberts has become internationally known for his research, teaching and active involvement in many aspects of technology management, including technology strategy, corporate venturing, product innovation management, and especially technology-based entrepreneurship.When not occupied with his MIT responsibilities, Roberts is actively involved as a co-founder, board member and angel investor in many high-tech start-ups. Roberts co-founded and was CEO of Pugh-Roberts Associates, an international management consulting firm, now a division of PA Consulting Group. He co-founded and is a director of Medical Information Technology, Inc., a leading producer of healthcare information systems. He also co-founded and served for 20 years as a director of Sohu.com, Inc., Chinas first Internet firm. In addition, Roberts co-founded and for 16 years served as a General Partner of the Zero Stage Capital Equity Funds, a group of venture capital funds investing in early-stage technology-based firms. He has been a co-founder and/or director of numerous emerging technology companies including Advanced Magnetics (now AMAG Pharmaceuticals), Daktari Diagnostics, Interactive SuperComputing (sold to Microsoft), Inverness Medical (now a part of Johnson & Johnson), Pegasystems, PR Restaurants, and Visible Measures. He has invested in more than 125 technology-based startups, including most recently HubSpot and Okta. Roberts has authored over 160 articles and twelve books, including Innovation: Driving Product, Process and Market Change (Jossey-Bass/Wiley, 2002). Roberts holds four degrees from MIT, including an SB and SM in EE, an SM in management, and a PhD in economics. Honors Ed Roberts recognized by the International Association of Management of Technology International Association of Management of Technology (IAMOT) has recognized Ed Roberts, David Sarnoff Professor of the Management of Technology, and Eric von Hippel, Professor of Management of Innovation, as two of the top 50 authors of technology and innovation management over the last 5 years. This exceptional achievement places Robertsand von Hippelwithin the top 1% of all researchers in the field. Read More Ed Roberts has been selected for the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Promoting Entrepreneurship The Global Agenda Councils include "the most innovative and relevant leaders to capture the best knowledge on each key issue and integrate it into global collaboration and decision-making processes." Read More Ed Roberts is the fourth recipient of the annual Adolf F. Monosson Prize for Entrepreneurship Mentoring "The Monosson Prize for Entrepreneurship Mentoring recognizes those who support and guid business pioneers who are blazing new pathways in entrepreneurship," and Ed was awarded for his extensive mentoring of aspiring entrepreneurs in the classroom and entrepreneurs active in the business world. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN Featured Publication Celebrating Entrepreneurs: How MIT Nurtured Pioneering Entrepreneurs who Built Great Companies. Roberts, Edward B. MIT, Cambridge, MA: Edward B. Roberts, 2020. Featured Publication "Entrepreneurship and Innovation at MIT: Continuing Global Growth and Impact." Edward B. Roberts, Fiona Murray, and J. Daniel Kim. Cambridge, MA: December 2015. "Entrepreneurial Pioneering from MIT: A Historical Case Study of the Internet." Roberts, Edward B. Tsinghua Business Review, May 2020. "How MIT Helped Cultivate Generations of Entrepreneurs." Roberts, Edward B. and Daniel Forbes. Entrepreneur & Innovation Exchange, April 24, 2020. "Entrepreneurship and Innovation at MIT: Continuing Global Growth and ImpactAn Updated Report." Roberts, Edward B., Fiona E. Murray, and J. Daniel Kim. Foundations and Trends in Entrepreneurship Vol. 15, No. 1 (2019): 1-55. "Foreward." Roberts, Edward B. In Entrepreneurial Negotiation , Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave MacMIllan, 2018. Load More Recent Insights Press MIT Sloan Prof. Edward Roberts receives the GCEC Legacy Award The founder of the Martin Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship is recognized for a lifetime of pioneering entrepreneurship. Nov 2, 2020 Read Article Press 'Celebrating Entrepreneurs,' firsthand account of MIT entrepreneurship The book by Edward Robertsnow in its second editionoffers a firsthand account of the past, present, and future of entrepreneurship at the school. Apr 16, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: RezScore for Medium (Video) MIT Professor Edward B. Roberts interview Jul 2, 2019 Faculty: Edward Roberts The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
