Roy E. Welsch | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Roy E. Welsch linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-564 rwelsch@mit.edu (617) 253-6601 (617) 258-7579 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/rwelsch/ Title Eastman Kodak Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Management Professor of Statistics and Engineering Systems 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications About Academic Groups Operations Research and Statistics Academic Area Management Science Centers & Initiatives Center for Computational Research in Economics and Management Science The MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy Operations Research Center Roy E. Welsch is theEastman Kodak Leaders for Global Operations Professor of Managementand aProfessor of Statistics and Data Science at the MIT Sloan School of Management and the MIT Center for Statistics and Data Science. He is the Director of the MIT Center for Computational Research in Economics and Management Science.Welsch joined the MIT faculty in 1969 as an assistant professor, became an associate professor four years later, and was promoted to professor in 1979. He held the Leaders for Manufacturing (now Leaders for Global Operations) chair from 1988 until 1993. From 1973 until 1979, he was also a Senior Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, where he participated in the development of the Troll econometric, financial, and statistical modeling system. He was co-director or director of the MIT Statistics Center from 1981 until 1989.Welsch is widely recognized for his book,Regression Diagnostics: Identifying Influential Data and Sources ofCollinearity, (with Edwin Kuh and DavidBelsley) on regression diagnostics and for his work on robust estimation, multiple comparison procedures, nonlinear modeling, and statistical computing. He is currently involved with research on robust process control and experimental design, credit-scoring models and risk assessment, diagnostics for checkingmodeland design assumptions, volatility modeling in financial markets, uncertainty quantification in plots and images, and repurposing existing drugs or combinations of drugs to prevent or delay Alzheimer's disease by creating synthetic clinical trials based on electronic health records. Welsch teaches Data Analysis and Applied Statistics, focusing on regression modeling, experimental design, and quality control with financial and marketing applications. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, the American Statistical Association, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.Welsch holds an AB in mathematics from Princeton Universityas well as an MS and aPhDin mathematics from Stanford University. Publications Featured Publication "Robust Dependence Modeling for High-Dimensional Covariance Matrices with Financial Applications." Zhu, Zhe, and Roy Welsch. The Annals of Applied Statistics Vol. 12, No. 2 (2018): 1228-1249. Featured Publication "Learning Word Dependencies in Text by Means of a Deep Recurrent Belief Network." Chaturvedi, Iti, Yew-Soon Ong, Ivor W. Tsang, Roy Welsch, and Erik Cambria. Knowledge Based Systems Vol. 108, (2016): 144154. "A Study on Multidimensional Medical Data Processing Based on Random Forest." Lifeng Zhang, Hongyan Cui, Roy E. Welsch, Wei Ke, Chuyuan Zhang, Gene R.H. Fry, and Chan Ton Lam. In IEEE International Conference of Universal Village, edited by Chan Tong Lam, Chuyuan Zhang, Gene R.H. Fry, and Wei Ke, Boston, MA: Forthcoming. "Distinguishing Between Facts and Opinions: Survey and Challenges." Chaturvedi, Iti, Erik Cambria, and Roy E. Welsch. Artificial Intelligence Review. Forthcoming. "Natural Language Based Financial Forecasting: A Survey." Xing, Frank Z., Erik Cambria, and Roy Welsch. Artificial Intelligence Review. Forthcoming. "TRANSCOMPP: Understanding Phenotypic Plasticity by Estimating Markov Transition Rates for Cell State Transitions." Jagannathan, Suhas N., Mario O. Ihsan, Xiao Xuan Kin, Roy Welsch, Marie-Vronique Clement, Lisa Tucker-Kellogg. Bioinformatics. Forthcoming. Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
