Mark P. Kritzman | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Mark P. Kritzman Support Staff Rianna Allen-Charles (617) 452-3417 rallen@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-690 mkritzman@mit.edu (617) 253-7125 Title Senior Lecturer, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Mark P. Kritzman is a Senior Lecturer in Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Kritzman is also the president and chief executive officer of Windham Capital Management, LLC, and also serves as a senior partner of State Street Associates. He serves on the boards of the Institute for Quantitative Research in Finance and the Investment Fund for Foundations, and on the editorial boards of the Emerging Markets Review, theFinancial Analysts Journal, theJournal of Alternative Investments, theJournal of Asset Management, theJournal of Derivatives, and theJournal of Investment Management. Kritzman has written numerous articles for academic and professional journals, focusing on investing and risk management. He is the author of six books, including Puzzles of Finance and The Portable Financial Analyst.Kritzman holds an MBA from New York University and a Chartered Financial Analyst designation. Honors Mark Kritzman article honored Mark Kritzman has won a 2016 Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Outstanding Article Award. The annual award recognizes research excellence in the theory and practice of portfolio management. Honorees are chosen by subscriber vote on articles appearing in The Journal of Portfolio Management the prior year. The winning paper, co-authored with Will Kinlaw and David Turkington (both of State Street), is entitledThe Divergence of High- and Low-Frequency Estimation: Implications for Performance Measurement(The Journal of Portfolio Management, Vol. 41, No. 3). Read More Mark Kritzman lauded for outstanding article Mark Kritzman has won a Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Outstanding Article Award. The annual award recognizes research excellence in the theory and practice of portfolio management. The paper, co-authored with William Kinlaw and David Turkington (both of State Street), is entitled The Divergence of High- and Low-Frequency Estimation: Causes and Consequences. Read More Mark Kritzman wins two Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Outstanding Article Awards MIT Sloan Senior Lecturer Mark Kritzman has won two Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Outstanding Article Awards, which recognize research excellence in the theory and practice of portfolio management. These annual awards for articles appearing in The Journal of Portfolio Management are based on subscriber voting. The first winning paper, "Liquidity and Portfolio Choice: A Unified Approach" (The Journal of Portfolio Management, Winter 2013), is co-authored with Will Kinlaw and David Turkington (both of State Street). The article illustrates innovative techniques for investors to determine the optimal allocation to illiquid assets. Mark's second awarded paper, "Risk Disparity" (The Journal of Portfolio Management, Fall 2013), addresses how to balance growth of portfolio wealth over time with avoidance of large draw-downs. Read More Mark Kritzman receives the 2013 Peter L. Bernstein Award MIT Sloan Senior Lecturer, Mark Kritzman has won the 2013 Peter L. Bernstein Award for Best Paper in an Institutional Investor Journal. The award honors outstanding, compelling research published in any of Institutional Investor's 10 journals over the past year. The winning paper, "Liquidity and Portfolio Choice: A Unified Approach" (The Journal of Portfolio Management, Winter 2013), is co-authored with Will Kinlaw and David Turkington (both of State Street). The article illustrates how managers can employ simulation techniques to quantify how much their unique portfolios benefit from liquidity or suffer from illiquidity. It also shows how they can use this information to construct portfolios that take liquidity considerations into account. Read More Publications "The Past as Prologue: How to Forecast Presidential Elections." Czasonis, Megan, Mark Kritzman, and David Turkington, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6166-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, August 2020. "The Relative Importance of Fiscal and Monetary Policy: An Empirical Perspective." Czasonis, Megan, Mark Kritzman and David Turkington, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6152-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, June 2020. "Portfolio Choice with Path-Dependent Preferences." Kritzman, Mark, Ding Li, Grace (Tiantian) Qiu, and David Turkington, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6113-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "The Stock-Bond Correlation." Czasonis, Megan, Mark Kritzman, and David Turkington, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6108-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, April 2020. "Private Equity and the Leverage Myth." Czasonis, Megan, William Kinlaw, Mark Kritzman, and David Turkington, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5912-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, February 2020. "A New Index of the Business Cycle." Kinlaw, William, Mark Kritzman, and David Turkington, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5908-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, January 2020. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter MIT Sloan research about the coronavirus pandemic The latest working papers from MIT Sloan faculty about the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic. Apr 23, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter A more accurate way to forecast recessions A new data-driven recession index revealed remarkable historical accuracy. Mar 10, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: CNBC There's a 70% chance of recession in the next six months, new study from... Feb 5, 2020 Faculty: Mark P. Kritzman The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
