Roberto Rigobon | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Roberto Rigobon twitter linkedin Support Staff John Tracey-Ursprung (617) 253-8318 jtracey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-520 rigobon@mit.edu (617) 258-8374 (617) 258-6786 http://web.mit.edu/rigobon/www/Robertos_Web_Page/ Title Society of Sloan Fellows Professor of Management Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Centers & Initiatives Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research Laboratory for Financial Engineering MIT Sloan Sustainability Initiative Roberto Rigobon is the Society of Sloan Fellows Professor of Management and a Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.He is also a research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, a member of the Census Bureaus Scientific Advisory Committee, and a visiting professor at IESA.Roberto is a Venezuelan economist whose areas of research are international economics, monetary economics, and development economics. Roberto focuses on the causes of balance-of-payments crises, financial crises, and the propagation of them across countriesthe phenomenon that has been identified in the literature as contagion. Currently he studies properties of international pricing practices, trying to produce alternative measures of inflation. He is one of the two founding members of the Billion Prices Project, and a co-founder of PriceStats.Roberto joined the business school in 1997 and has won both the "Teacher of the Year" award and the "Excellence in Teaching" award at MIT three times.He received his PhD in economics from MIT in 1997, an MBA from IESA (Venezuela) in 1991, and his BS in Electrical Engineer from Universidad Simon Bolivar (Venezuela) in 1984. He is married with three kids. Honors Rigobon and colleagues win awards MIT Sloan Professor Roberto Rigobon and two MIT researchers Florian Berg and Julian Koelbel have won two awards from the Global Research Alliance for Sustainable Finance and Investment (GRASFI): the 2020 GRASFI Best Paper Prize and the 2020 GRASFI Best Paper Prize on ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) Standards. Their dual-winning paper is entitled Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings. Videos of the award presentations (September 2020), including the authors discussing their winning paper, are at: 2020 GRASFI Best Paper Prize and 2020 GRASFI Best Paper Prize on ESG Standards. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Aggregate Confusion: The Divergence of ESG Ratings." Berg, Florian, Julian F. Koelbel, and Roberto Rigobon, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5822-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, May 2020. "Contagion, Spillover, and Interdependence." Rigobon, Roberto. Economia Vol. 19, No. 2 (2019): 69-99. Download Paper. "Measuring Sovereign Contagion in Europe." Caporin, Massimiliano, Loriana Pelizzon, Francesco Ravazzolo, and Roberto Rigobon. Journal of Financial Stability Vol. 34, (2018): 150-181. Download Paper. "A Micro-Based Model for World Oil Market." Espinasa, Ramon, Enrique ter Horst, Sergio Guerra Reyes, Osmel Manzano, German Molina, and Roberto Rigobon. Energy Economics Vol. 66, No. 1 (2017): 431-449. Principles and Practices for Federal Program Evaluation. Groves, Robert, et al. Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2017. Federal Statistics, Multiple Data Sources, and Privacy Protection: Next Step. Groves, Robert, et al. Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2017. Load More Recent Insights Press Aggregate Confusion Project: Improving the quality of ESG measurement The project is charting a course toward more rigorous, coherent methods for ESG integration, with four key goals that are relevant to asset owners and managers, as well as regulators. Sep 8, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter 2019, illustrated Six illustrations and photos we loved this year. Dec 2, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Poets & Quants 2020 MBAs To Watch: Larissa Cavalcanti, MIT (Sloan) Jun 1, 2020 Ms. Cavalcanti (MBA '20) says: "I would say Sloan is a place where everyone is helpful, open, friendly, and caring." Faculty: Roberto Rigobon Source: CNN Chile | Futuro360 (Video) "Data Analytics Certificate": Universidad de Chile y MIT cierran con xi... Feb 17, 2020 Faculty: Emilio J. Castilla Roberto Rigobon Source: El Mercurio (Chile) Se grada la primera generacin de expertos en Data Analytics del MIT y ... Feb 6, 2020 Faculty: Roberto Rigobon Source: All About Alpha ESG: Why the ratings diverge Jan 21, 2020 Faculty: Roberto Rigobon Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
