Daniel Freund | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Daniel Freund curriculum vitae Support Staff Mark Leonardo II (617) 324-6710 mark2@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-584 dfreund@mit.edu (617) 324-7442 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/dfreund/ Title Assistant Professor, Operations Management 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Operations Management Academic Area Management Science Daniel Freund is an Assistant Professor of Operations Management at the MIT Sloan School of Management.His research focuses on complex decision-making problems in the sharing economy. During his PhD he developed the analytical methods used by bike-sharing systems like Citi Bike, Ford Go Bike, and Boston Blue Bikes to inform their rebalancing, thus enabling thousands of incremental bike rides every day. Prior to joining MIT, Daniel spent a year as a Research Fellow at Lyft Marketplace Labs where he developed new algorithms and market mechanisms for the ride sharing industry.He received the 2018 George B. Dantzig Dissertation Award, the 2018 Daniel H. Wagner Prize for Excellence in Operations Research, and a Best Paper Award at the 2018 ACM SIGCAS Conference. He was also a finalist in the 2017 George Nicholson student paper competition as well as the 2018 POM Applied Research Challenge.He holds a BSc in mathematics from the University of Warwick (UK), as well as an MS and a PhD in applied mathematics from Cornell University, where he was advised by Prof. David B. Shmoys. Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Analytics and Bikes: Riding Tandem with Motivate to Improve Mobility." Freund, Daniel, Shane G. Henderson, Eoin O'Mahony, and David B. Shmoys. Journal on Applied Analytics Vol. 49, No. 5 (2019): 310-323. "Budgeted Prize-Collecting Traveling Salesman and Minimum Spanning Tree Problems." Paul, Alice, Daniel Freund, Aaron Ferber, David B. Shmoys, and David P. Williamson. Mathematics of Operations Research Vol. 45, No. 2 (2020): 576590. "Data-Driven Rebalancing Methods for Bike-Share Systems." Freund, Daniel, Ashkan Norouzi-Fard, Alice Paul, Carter Wang Shane G. Henderson, and David B. Shmoys. In Analytics for the Sharing Economy: Mathematics, Engineering and Business Perspectives, edited by Bissan Ghaddar, Emanuele Crisostomi, Florian Husler, Joe Naoum-Sawaya, and Robert Shorten, 255-278. Springer, 2020. "Uniform Loss Algorithms for Online Stochastic Decision-Making With Applications to Bin Packing." Freund, Daniel and Siddhartha Banerjee, MIT Sloan Working Paper 5896-19. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, November 2019. "Computational Sustainability: Computing for a Better World and a Sustainable Future." Gomes, Carla, Daniel Freund et al. Communications of the ACM Vol. 62, No. 9 (2019): 55-65. "Chapter 18: Bike Sharing." Freund, Daniel, Shane G. Henderson, and David B. Shmoys. In Sharing Economy: Making Supply Meet Demand, edited by Ming Hu, 435-459. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2019. Load More Media Highlights Source: Scientific American (Opinion Piece) How bike sharing can be more efficient Oct 30, 2019 Faculty: Daniel Freund Source: Poets & Quants All the new faculty at the top 25 schools Sep 11, 2019 Faculty: Jackson G. Lu Basima Tewfik Abdullah Almaatouq Daniel Freund Jacquelyn Pless Source: Cycling Industry News AI and incentives see cyclists do the legwork for bike share firms Aug 27, 2019 Faculty: Daniel Freund The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
