Ernst Rudolf Berndt | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Ernst Rudolf Berndt Support Staff John Tracey-Ursprung (617) 253-8318 jtracey@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-533 eberndt@mit.edu (617) 253-2665 (617) 258-6786 Title Professor, Applied Economics 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Applied Economics Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Ernst Berndt is a Professor of Applied Economics at the MIT Sloan School of Management.Until January 2011, he was Director of the National Bureau of Economic Research Program on Technological Progress and Productivity Measurement.Berndts recent research focus has been on the changing dynamics of the healthcare industries. He has examined how medical innovations have affected the costs of treating selected diseases over time, factors affecting the globalization of clinical trials (particularly in emerging economies), causes of recent cancer drug shortages in the US, incentives to induce research and development into diseases prevalent in low-income countries, how industry funding of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration through user fees has affected review times and safety withdrawal rates, and the impact of direct-to-consumer marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals on drug utilization. In other research, Berndt has assessed how illness and its treatment affect individuals ability to function at work. More generally, his research deals with assessing the sources of productivity growth and how productivity is measured. Berndt has implemented methods for adjusting prices for changes in quality in the pharmaceutical, healthcare, personal computer hardware, prepackaged software, and personal digit assistant product categories. He also has published research on the structure of the advertising services industries.Berndt holds a BA in economics and philosophy from Valparaiso University, as well as an MS and a PhD from the University of Wisconsin. He has also been awarded honorary doctorate degrees from Uppsala University in Sweden and from the University of Basel in Switzerland. Honors Berndt receives Shiskin award Ernst Berndt has been selected to receive the 2020 Julius Shiskin Memorial Award for Economic Statistics, which recognizes unusually original and important contributions to the development of economic statistics or to their use in interpreting the economy.In particular, the award recognizes Berndt for conducting original and influential economic research on the measurement of multifactor productivity and quality-adjusted price change and for his leadership of key groups both within and with linkages to the U.S. economic statistics community.More details on Berndts many contributions are in this press release.The award is sponsored by the Business and Economic Statistics section of the American Statistical Association, the National Association for Business Economics, and the Washington Statistical Society.The award was announced on the ASA B&E section website. Read More Ernst Berndt awarded honorary degree Ernst Berndt has been recognized with an honorary doctorate from the University of Basel (Switzerland), for his outstanding academic achievements in the fields of econometrics and health economics. The university noted Berndts research on the sources of innovation and the measurement of productivity, as well as the methods he implemented for adjusting prices of commodities whose characteristics significantly change over time. Read More Publications SSRN "Characterization of Annual Disease Progression of Multiple Sclerosis Patients: A Population-based Study." Freilich, Jonatan, Ali Manouchehrinia, Mark Trusheim, Lynn G. Baird, Sophie Desbiens, Ernst Berndt, and Jan Hillert. Multiple Sclerosis Journal. Forthcoming. "The Generic Drug User Fee Amendments: An Economic Perspective." Berndt, Ernst R., Rena M. Conti, and Stephen J. Murphy. Journal of Law and the Biosciences. Forthcoming. Download Paper. "Specialty Drug Prices and Utilization after Loss of U.S. Patent Exclusivity, 2001-2007." Conti, Rena M., and Ernst R. Berndt. In Measuring and Modeling Health Care Costs, edited by Ana Aizcorbe, Colin Baker, David M. Cutler, and Ernst R. Berndt, 1-48. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2018. "The Regulation of Prescription Drug Competition and Market Responses: Patterns in Prices and Sales Following Loss of Exclusivity." Aitken, Murray L., Ernst R. Berndt, Barry Bosworth, Iain M. Cockburn, Richard G. Frank, Michael Kleinrock, and Bradley T. Shapiro. In Measuring and Modeling Health Care Costs, edited by Ana Aizcorbe, Colin Baker, David M. Cutler, and Ernst R. Berndt, 1-39. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2018. "An Evaluation of the CPI Indexes for Prescription Drugs." Barry Bosworth, John Bieler, Michael Kleinrock, Eric Koepcke, and Ernst R. Berndt. Washington, DC: January 2018. "Patterns of Physician Antipsychotic Prescribing to Young Children." Huskamp, Haiden A., Marcella Horvitz-Lennon, Ernst Rudolf Berndt, Sharon-Lise Normand, and Julie M. Donohue. Psychiatric Services Vol. 67, No. 12 (2016): 1307-1314. Download Paper. Load More Media Highlights Source: The New York Times Remdesivir, the first coronavirus drug, gets a price tag Jun 29, 2020 Remdesivir...will be distributed under an unusual agreement with the federal government. Faculty: Ernst Rudolf Berndt The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
