Kate Kellogg | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Kate Kellogg curriculum vitae Support Staff Virginia Geiger (617) 253-2602 vgeiger@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-324 kkellogg@mit.edu (617) 253-2167 (617) 253-2660 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/kkellogg/ Title David J. McGrath jr (1959) Professor of Management and Innovation Professor, Work and Organization Studies Group Head, Work and Organization Studies Group 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Kate Kellogg is the David J. McGrath jr (1959) Professor of Management and Innovation and a Professor of Business Administration in the Work and Organization Studies Department at the MIT Sloan School of Management. Kellogg teaches, researches, and writes about organizational change, institutional change, and new models of work and employment. Before coming to MIT, she spent six years in management consulting at Bain & Company and Health Advances, and several years as vice president of sales and marketing for the Baltimore/Washington American Red Cross. Kates book, Challenging Operations: Medical Reform and Resistance in Surgery, University of Chicago Press, 2011, is the winner of the Max Weber Award from the Organizations, Occupations, and Work section and the winner of the Sociology of Law Biannual Distinguished Book Award from the Law section of the American Sociological Association. She is also recipient of the Best Published Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory (OMT) division of the Academy of Management. Kate's winning paper, "Operating Room: Relational Spaces and Microinstitutional Change in Surgery," appeared in the November 2009 issue of the American Journal of Sociology. She received her BA in biology and psychology from Dartmouth College, her MBA from Harvard Business School, and her PhD in management from the MIT Sloan School of Management. Research Interests: Organizational Change, Institutional Change, Professions, Interdisciplinary Collaboration, Healthcare, People Analytics, Future of Work Honors Kate Kelloggs book wins Max Weber award Kates book, Challenging Operations: Medical Reform and Resistance in Surgery, University of Chicago Press, 2011, is the winner of the Max Weber Award from the Organizations, Occupations, and Work section and the winner of the Sociology of Law Biannual Distinguished Book Award from the Law section of the American Sociological Association. Read More Katherine Kellogg is the recipient of the first annual Best Published Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory (OMT) division of the Academy of Management Katherine Kellogg is the recipient of the first annual Best Published Paper Award from the Organization and Management Theory (OMT) division of the Academy of Management. Kate's winning paper, "Operating Room: Relational Spaces and Microinstitutional Change in Surgery," appeared in the November 2009 issue of the American Journal of Sociology. Read More Publications Google Scholar Featured Publication "Moving Violations: Pairing an Illegitimate Learning Hierarchy with Trainee Status Mobility for Acquiring New Skills When Traditional Expertise Erodes." Kellogg, Katherine C., Jenna E. Myers, Lindsay Gainer, Sara J. Singer. Organization Science. Forthcoming. Featured Publication "Subordinate Activation Tactics: Semi-professionals and Micro-level Institutional Change in Professional Organizations." Kellogg, Katherine C. Administrative Science Quarterly Vol. 64, No. 4 (2019): 928-975. "State Actor Orchestration for Achieving Workforce Development at Scale: Evidence from Four US States." Myers, Jenna E. and Katherine C. Kellogg. ILR Review: 44. Forthcoming. Pre-Publication Version. "Algorithms at Work: The New Contested Terrain of Control." Kellogg, Katherine C., Melissa A. Valentine, and Angle Christin. Annals of the Academy of Management Vol. 14, No. 1 (2020): 366-410. "An Intraorganizational Model for Developing and Spreading Quality Improvement Innovations." Kellogg, Katherine C., Lindsay A. Gainer, Adrienne S. Allen, Tatum O'Sullivan, and Sara Singer. Healthcare Management Review Vol. 42, No. 4 (2017): 292-302. "The Radical Flank Effect and Cross-Occupational Collaboration for Technology Development During a Power Shift." Truelove, Emily and Katherine C. Kellogg. Administrative Science Quarterly Vol. 61, No. 4 (2016): 662-701. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A COVID-19 playbook for nursing homes Download the MIT COVID-19 Policy Alliances new report for nursing facility leaders and policymakers. Nov 2, 2020 Read Article Ideas Made to Matter How a simple calculator and job portal are fighting COVID-19 A group of MIT Sloan faculty and students are using analytics to help senior homes stock up on protective gear and fill health care support roles. Jun 8, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: WBUR | Cognoscenti (Opinion Piece) 4 things Mass. must do immediately to prevent another COVID-19 crisis in... Dec 2, 2020 "...prioritizing COVID-19 treatment and management in nursing homes has become a critical moral imperative." Faculty: Kate Kellogg Source: The Boston Globe (Opinion Piece) How to reduce coronavirus deaths in nursing homes Apr 17, 2020 MIT Sloan's Simon Johnson, Kate Kellogg, and Retsef Levi write: "Residents of nursing facilities in Massachusetts are in grave danger." Faculty: Simon Johnson Kate Kellogg Retsef Levi Source: Harvard Business Review How to orchestrate change from the bottom up Feb 13, 2019 Faculty: Kate Kellogg The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
