Nathan Wilmers | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Nathan Wilmers curriculum vitae Support Staff Ieva Paulauskaite (617) 324-7368 ieva@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-338 wilmers@mit.edu (617) 258-8598 Title Sarofim Family Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Work and Organization Studies 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Work and Organization Studies Academic Area Behavioral and Policy Sciences Centers & Initiatives Good Companies, Good Jobs Nathan Wilmers is the Sarofim Family Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Work and Organization Studies at the MIT Sloan School of Management. He is a member of the Institute for Work and Employment Research and affiliated with the Economic Sociology program. For the most up-to-date information on his research, please see his personal website at www.nathanwilmers.com.Wilmers researches wage and earnings inequality, economic sociology, and the sociology of labor. In his empirical research, he studies how wage stagnation and rising earnings inequality result from weakening labor market institutions, changing market power, and job restructuring. More broadly, he is interested in bringing insights from economic sociology to the study of labor markets and the wage structure. His research has been published in the American Sociological Review, the American Journal of Sociology, and Social Forces.Wilmers holds a BA in philosophy from the University of Chicago and an MA and PhD in sociology from Harvard University. Publications "Solidarity Within and Across Workplaces: How Cross-Workplace Coordination Affects Earnings Inequality." Wilmers, Nathan. RSF: The Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences Vol. 5, No. 4 (2019): 190-215. "Do the Poor Pay More for Housing? Exploitation, Profit, and Risk in Rental Markets." Desmond, Matthew, and Nathan Wilmers. American Journal of Sociology Vol. 124, No. 4 (2019): 1090-1124. "Wage Stagnation and Buyer Power: How Buyer-Supplier Relations Affect U.S. Workers Wages, 1978-2014." Wilmers, Nathan. American Sociological Review Vol. 83, No. 2 (2018): 213-242. "Does Consumer Demand Reproduce Inequality? High-income Consumers, Vertical Differentiation and the Wage Structure." Wilmers, Nathan. American Journal of Sociology Vol. 123, No. 1 (2017): 178-231. "Sociological Perspectives on Economic Inequality." Wilmers, Nathan. In Cambridge Handbook of Sociology, edited by Kathleen Odell Korgen, 245-246. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2017. "Labor Unions as Activist Organizations: A Union Power Approach to Estimating Union Wage Effects." Wilmers, Nathan. Social Forces Vol. 95, No. 4 (2017): 1451-1478. Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter Find your 'job turf' for salary bargaining power Staking your space is a savvy move, though it can also contribute to workplace income inequality. Mar 24, 2020 Read Article Press Study finds employees who perform specialized tasks earn 5% more At a time when wage inequality and workplace fairness dominate the national conversation, a new study by Nathan Wilmers sheds light on the factors that drive pay disparities among workers. Feb 25, 2020 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Boston Review Six labor policies we need now Sep 4, 2020 "...we are seeing in many of our students a new determination to help shape a fairer, more equitable, and sustainable business world. Faculty: Erin Kelly Emilio J. Castilla Thomas Kochan Barbara Dyer Paul Osterman Nathan Wilmers Source: BBC News Why claiming 'job turf' could help improve your pay Mar 16, 2020 Faculty: Nathan Wilmers Source: LSE Blogs (Opinion Piece) Large corporate buyers may be the hidden culprit behind stagnant wages. Apr 4, 2019 Faculty: Nathan Wilmers The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
