Christopher J. Palmer | MIT Sloan Skip to main content mit sloan logo Ideas Made to Matter Diversity Events Alumni Faculty About Executive Education academics contact facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube Search Show Navigation Work smart with the Thinking Forward newsletter. MIT ideas every week. Sign up for Tuesday insights. close search Back to Menu Which program is right for you? MBA Through intellectual rigor and experiential learning, this full-time, two-year MBA program develops leaders who make a difference in the world. Master of Finance A rigorous, hands-on program that prepares adaptive problem solvers for premier finance careers. Master of Business Analytics A 12-month program focused on applying the tools of modern data science, optimization and machine learning to solve real-world business problems. Leaders for Global Operations Earn your MBA and SM in engineering with this transformative two-year program. Master of Science in Management Studies Combine an international MBA with a deep dive into management science. A special opportunity for partner and affiliate schools only. System Design & Management A joint program for mid-career professionals that integrates engineering and systems thinking. Earn your masters degree in engineering and management. Integrated Design & Management An interdisciplinary program that combines engineering, management, and design, leading to a masters degree in engineering and management. Undergraduate Bring a business perspective to your technical and quantitative expertise with a bachelors degree in management, business analytics, or finance. PhD A doctoral program that produces outstanding scholars who are leading in their fields of research. Executive Programs MIT Sloan Fellows MBA A full-time MBA program for mid-career leaders eager to dedicate one year of discovery for a lifetime of impact. MIT Executive MBA This 20-month MBA program equips experienced executives to enhance their impact on their organizations and the world. Executive Education Non-degree programs for senior executives and high-potential managers. Visiting Fellows A non-degree, customizable program for mid-career professionals. View Admissions Events Faculty Christopher J. Palmer linkedin curriculum vitae Support Staff Jenn Alton (617) 253-3386 jalton@mit.edu Get in Touch Building E62-639 cjpalmer@MIT.EDU (617) 324-3901 http://mitmgmtfaculty.mit.edu/cpalmer/ Title Albert and Jeanne Clear Career Development Professor Assistant Professor, Finance 01. Biography 01.Biography 02.Publications 03.Articles & Press About Academic Groups Finance Academic Area Economics, Finance and Accounting Christopher Palmer is the Albert and Jeanne Clear Career Development Professor and an Assistant Professor of Finance at the MIT Sloan School of Management where he teaches corporate finance. His research focuses on how credit, real estate, and labor markets respond to periods of significant upheaval.Palmer is also a Visiting Scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, a Faculty Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research, and an Affiliate with the Jameel Poverty Action Lab. He previously taught real estate finance at the University of California Berkeleys Haas School of Business and was a Visiting Scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Prior to graduate school, he consulted with Compass-Lexecon.Palmer holds a BA in economics and mathematics from Brigham Young University and a PhD in economics from MIT.Current Research Focus: Palmer's research focuses on how credit, real estate, and labor markets respond to periods of significant upheaval. His current research projects include studying the consequences of how consumers shop for credit, how households strategically use bankruptcy laws, how to improve federal housing entitlements, the effectiveness of disclosure laws, and how people form expectations about future house prices. Honors Palmer wins SFS Best Paper Award Christopher Palmer was honored with the Best Paper in Corporate Finance Award in 2019. The award, given by the Society of Financial Studies, was for the paper, The Capitalization of Consumer Financing into Durable Goods Prices. Palmer's paper co-author's were Bronson Argyle, Taylor Nadauld, and Ryan Pratt. Read More NBER appoints Palmer as a Faculty Research Fellow The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) has recently appointed four MIT Sloan faculty members as Faculty Research Fellows, including Christopher Palmer, who has been appointed a fellow in the Corporate Finance program. Christian Catalini, Namrata Kala, and Claudia Steinwender were also appointed as fellows. The NBER is the nations leading nonprofit economic research organization, whose affiliates have included 27 Nobel Prize winners and 13 past chairs of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers. While the NBER remains impartial and does not make public policy recommendations, NBER research findings are disseminated among academics, public policy makers, and business professionals, bringing critical information to many important public policy debates. Read More Publications Google Scholar SSRN "Errors in the Dependent Variable of Quantile Regression Models." Palmer, Christopher John, Jerry Hausman, Haoyang Liu, and Ye Luo (NBER Working Paper No. 25819). Econometrica. Forthcoming. Data and Code. "Testing the Effectiveness of Consumer Financial Disclosure: Experimental Evidence from Savings Accounts." Palmer, Christopher John, Paul Adams, Redis Zaliauskas, and Stefan Hunt (NBER Working Paper No. 25718). Journal of Financial Economics. Forthcoming. Slides. MarketWatch. The Economist. "The Capitalization of Consumer Financing into Durable Goods Prices." Argyle, Bronson, Taylor Nadauld, Christopher John Palmer, and Ryan Pratt (NBER Working Paper No. 24699). Journal of Finance. Forthcoming. Slides. NBER Digest. SFS Cavalcade 2019 Best Paper in Corporate Finance. "Monthly Payment Targeting and the Demand for Maturity." Argyle, Bronson, Christopher John Palmer, and Taylor Nadauld. Review of Financial Studies Vol. 33, No. 11 (2020): 54165462. Slides. MIT News. "Running Up the Tab: Personal Bankruptcy, Moral Hazard, and Shadow Debt." Argyle, Bronson, Benjamin Iverson, Taylor Nadauld, and Christopher John Palmer, MIT Sloan Working Paper 6150-20. Cambridge, MA: MIT Sloan School of Management, July 2020. "How Quantitative Easing Works: Evidence on the Refinancing Channel." Di Maggio, Marco, Amir Kermani, and Christopher John Palmer. Review of Economic Studies Vol. 87, No. 3 (2020): 1498-1528. Pre-publication Version. Appendix. Data and Code. Slides. VoxEU. Forbes. NBER Digest. MIT News. Load More Recent Insights Ideas Made to Matter A customized approach to high-opportunity housing A customized search program helped low-income families find and move to good neighborhoods to raise their children. Sep 3, 2019 Read Article Press Reducing segregation and increasing upward mobility in American cities MIT Sloan School Professor Christopher Palmer partners with Seattle and King County Public Housing Authorities to pilot mobility program addressing the fading American Dream Aug 4, 2019 Read Article Load More Media Highlights Source: Bloomberg (Radio) Baystate Business: Christopher Palmer on rent control Oct 22, 2019 Faculty: Christopher J. Palmer Source: The Hill (Opinion Piece) Federal housing choice voucher program must be modernized Aug 11, 2019 Faculty: Christopher J. Palmer Source: The Economist Many consumers neither read nor understand the contracts they sign Jul 27, 2019 Faculty: Christopher J. Palmer Source: MarketWatch (Opinion Piece) Here's why most of us tune out when companies try to get our attention Jul 2, 2019 Faculty: Christopher J. Palmer Load More The Mission The mission of the MIT Sloan School of Management is to develop principled, innovative leaders who improve the world and to generate ideas that advance management practice. Find Us MIT Sloan School of Management 100 Main Street Cambridge, MA 02142 617-253-1000 Links Return to campus Press Careers Accessibility Licensing Privacy 2020 MIT Sloan School of Management
