Stories of giving - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Search for: GOSearch Give to CHBE Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Menu Undergraduate Prospective Students: Program Overview What is Chemical Engineering? Apply to ChBE at Illinois Visit Illinois Diversity Current Students Undergraduate Scholarships Meet Our Undergraduate Students Convocation Tutoring Graduate Ph.D. Program Overview Graduate Admissions Graduate Admissions FAQs Graduate Research Symposium Graduate Student Life Diversity Graduate Fellowships Meet Our Graduate Students Research Energy and Sustainability Biomolecular Engineering Soft Matter and Advanced Materials Computational Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Research Institutes and Collaborations Outreach Food drive Bill Hammack, Engineer Guy People Faculty Affiliate Faculty Specialized Teaching Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Faculty Awards and Honors Alumni & Corporate Partners Alumni Awards Program Give to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering With Illinois: The Campaign for Illinois and Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Stories of giving Alumni The Legacy of Thomas J. Hanratty Mass Transfer newsletter Corporate Partners In this Section Alumni & Corporate Partners Alumni Alumni Awards Mass Transfer newsletter Celebrating our Sesquicentennial Homecoming The Legacy of Thomas J. Hanratty Meet Our Alumni National Academy of Engineering Members Notable Alumni Give to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering With Illinois: The Campaign for Illinois and Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Giving Priorities Stories of giving Corporate Partners Our corporate partners Stories of giving Kirk Nass, BS 83 and Michael Gillespie Nass, an Illinois native, credits Illinois and the concepts he learnedmass transfer, heat transfer, fluid flow and a solid grounding in chemistrywith the success and enjoyment of his work at Chevron. Read more. Jim Grant, BS 69 Grant, a first generation college student, established a scholarship to support undergraduates studying chemical engineering. My wife and I owe so much to Illinois, he said. We wanted to pass on that opportunity to todays students. Read more. Jim Morris, BS 81 Morris honored his late mother and father by establishing the Donald and Dolores Morris Faculty Scholar position. They worked hard. They sacrificed a lot to give me the opportunity to go to the U of I, Morris said. Read more. Ray and Beverly Mentzer Thanks to the generosity of Ray (BS 74) and Beverly Mentzer, the department is able to deliver superior training to the next generation of chemical engineering leaders. The Mentzers support undergraduate scholarships and a faculty scholar. Read more. Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Illinois About Us Contact Us Employment Opportunities Alumni: Update your Info News Calendar my.chbe Give to CHBE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign School of Chemical Sciences College of Liberal Arts & Sciences The Grainger College of Engineering 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy Privacy Log In CookieSettings
