Mohammad Saleem | Department of Mathematics & Statistics | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. SJSU Homepage Department of Mathematics & StatisticsSan Jos State UniversityCollege of Science Site Navigation Academic Programs CAMCOS (external link) Graduate Programs Teaching Credentials Programs Undergraduate Programs Assessment and PLOs For Students Advising: I have a Question... Advising: Forms and Links Courses Course Announcements Graduate Studies Internships Majoring in Math Mathematical Careers Professional Organizations Scholarships SJSU Problem Solvers Tips for Success Calculus and Discrete Mathematics PPA, AP, SAT and ACT score information Course Prerequisites Info Precalculus Proficiency Assessment (PPA) Who We Are Faculty (Alphabetical) Faculty (Research) Lecturers Staff Teaching Associates Employment Emeritus Faculty In Memoriam Events Colloquium Monday Math Seminar SJSU Home>Department of Mathematics & Statistics>Who We Are>Faculty (Alphabetical)>Mohammad Saleem Mohammad Saleem one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to Faculty (Alphabetical) Professor Mohammad Saleem MacQuarrie Hall, Room 313Phone: (408)924-5141 Email: mohammad.saleem@sjsu.edu HomePage Research Areas Numerical Analysis Mathematical Fluid Dynamics Computational Linear Algebra Mathematical Modeling Biography After teaching for two years at the University of Missouri, St. Louis, I came to SJSU in Fall 1990. Since then I have taught courses like Calculus, Finite Math, Discrete Math, Linear Algebra, Differential Equations and Numerical Analysis. I have also worked as an Ames Associate, conducting research at Nasa-Ames Research Center. My field of interest is Numerical Analysis and Computational Aerodynamics with publications in both. I have also been involved with CAMCOS projects and the solution of Fokker-Plank Equation as an integral equation. Since the fall of 2008, I have been involved with Pre-Calculus and Calculus workshops designed to enhance student success through problem solving. I am a member of the MAA and SIAM, and have given talks at conferences in the USA and abroad. SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Jun 10, 2020
