Tortora, Cristina | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Tortora, CristinaSan Jos State University Site Navigation SJSU Home>People>Tortora, Cristina Tortora, Cristina one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Courses Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics and Statistics Website: http://cristinatortora.com Office: MQH 311 Email: cristina.tortora at sjsu dot edu Education Ph.D. in Statistics, February 2012, University of Naples Federico II Bio I was born and raised in Italy where I received my Master degree in Statistics. I did part of my studies in Lyon, France where I received a second master degree in Statistics. I completed my PhD at the Department of Mathematics and Statistics of the University of Naples Federico II in February 2012. During the PhD I was visiting student at CEREMADE Paris Dauphine. Before coming to SJSU, I was a post-doctoral research fellow at McMaster University, Canada (2014-2015), at University of Guelph, Canada (2013), and at Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn of Naples, Italy (2012). I'm an Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at San Jose State University. My research mainly focuses on data analysis. I have been interested in a wide range of statistical domains like cluster analysis, regression, soft modeling, textual data analysis, and network analysis. Among them my research focuses on clustering and classification. I recently worked on non-Gaussian mixture models and big data analysis. My interests concern different applied areas as well, I collaborated with experts in different fields: psychologist, environmental scientists, engineers and agroecology experts. In my free time I enjoy sports like jogging, volleyball, scuba diving, and ski. I love travelling and I fluently speak Italian, English, and French. Links https://sites.google.com/sjsu.edu/cristina/home SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 24, 2020
