Lavanya Marla | Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering | Illinois skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Give News Courses Mottier Challenge My.ISE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Industrial & Enterprise Systems Engineering Search Menu About About Follow ISE Newsletter Archive ISE Rankings ISE Videos About ISE Prospective Students Student Profiles Research ISE Labs Online-MS MSFE Undergraduate Undergraduate Systems Engineering and Design Degree SED Curriculum Map SED Electives Secondary Field Option Industrial Engineering Degree IE Course map (Prior to Fall 2018) IE Course map (Starting Fall 2018) IE Electives Track Options Admitted Student Visit Days Advising Apply Now Financial Aid Companies Hiring ISE Graduates Contact Info ISE Courses Curriculum Engineering Image Contest Research Scholarships Senior Engineering Program Senior Engineering Program Awards Student Awards Student Feedback Form Student Societies Student Testimonials Undergraduate Resources Wait list Why ISE ISE Undergraduate Wiki ABET Where Are They Now Graduate Graduate Admissions Apply Now Eligibility and Requirements Tuition and Fees Check Application Status FAQ Degrees and Programs MS Financial Engineering MS Heath Technology MS Industrial Engineering MS Industrial EngineeringAdvanced Analytics Concentration MS (Online) Industrial Engineering MS Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering PhD Industrial Engineering PhD Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering Online Non-degree Options Advanced Analytics Certificate ISE Courses All ISE Courses Courses and Faculty by Research Area Student Success Financial Support Contact Us Research Research Data Analytics Decision and Control Systems Design and Manufacturing Financial Engineering Operations Research Labs Autonomous and Unmanned Vehicle Systems Laboratory (AUVSL) Decision Systems Laboratory Engineering System Design Laboratory Enterprise Systems Optimizations Laboratory Flexible Manufacturing Laboratory Human Factors in Sociotechnical Systems (HFSS) Laboratory Mechatronics Laboratory Monolithic Systems Laboratory Nondestructive Testing and Evaluation Research Laboratory Operations Research Laboratory Product Design Laboratory Reliability and Safety Assurance Laboratory Senior Engineering Project Design Studio Directory Directory Faculty Administration Grad Students Faculty Awards Alumni Alumni Alumni News Update Your Contact and Employment Information Alumni Awards Join the Alumni Board Be an Engineer in Residence Program Follow ISE Where Are They Now? Alumni Album Corporate Partners Corporate Partners Become a Corporate Partner Senior Engineering Program ISE After Hours Participating Companies Mottier Challenge Mottier Challenge Mottier Challenge 2019 Winners Mottier Challenge 2018 Winners Mottier Challenge 2017 Winners Giving Giving Give Now Funding Priorities Ways to Give News News Follow ISE Enewsletter Print Newsletter Archive Alumni News Courses In this section Lavanya Marla Primary Research Area Data Analytics Assistant Professor 216E Transportation Building phone: (217) 300-5892 email: lavanyam@illinois.edu For more information Research Website Education Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Transportation Systems, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), September 2010. Thesis: Airline Schedule Planning and Operations: Optimization-based Approaches for Delay Mitigation, Advisor: Prof. Cynthia Barnhart, Chancellor, MIT. Master of Science (S.M.), Transportation and Operations Research (dual degree), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, June 2007. Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.), Major: Civil Engineering, Minor: Industrial Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, June 2004. Academic Positions Assistant Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering, Jan 2013-present. Zero-time appointment with Civil and Environmental Engineering and Information Trust Institute Systems Scientist and iLab Mobility Analytics Co-director, Heinz College, Carnegie Mellon University (CMU), Pittsburgh PA, Sep 2010-Dec 2012. Visiting Faculty/Scholar, Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, India, Feb-August 2015. Research Statement My research aims at the development and application of tools from large-scale optimization, data mining, statistics, simulation, applied machine learning and computational techniques to build logistics and transportation systems that are operationally flexible and dynamically adaptable to improve cost, efficiency, robustness and environmentalimpact which are crucial for a sustainable system. This vision is challenging because of the sheer size of the system, competition between multiple stakeholders and presence of significant uncertainty. To analyze and address evolving transportation infrastructure, I use tools from large-scale optimization, data mining, statistics, simulation, visualization and computational techniques. My research style involves: (i) analyzing large-scale real-world data from public agencies, operators and users to identify high-impact opportunities, (ii) developing quantitative data-driven models and algorithms to address them, and (iii) evaluating impact by testing on realistic simulation testbeds. Research Interests Shared transportation systems Logistics systems (routing and scheduling, last-mile transportation, cyber-physical systems) Emergency medical systems Air transportation systems Transportation and logistics networks Applied machine learning Game theory Robust network design and operations Data-driven statistical modeling and optimization Decision-making under uncertainty in large-scale networks Research Areas Data Analytics Operations Research Selected Articles in Journals K. Krishnan, L. Marla and S. Deo (2020). "Managing EMS Systems with Abandonment Behavior in Emerging Economies", Accepted, IISE Transactions. L. Marla, A. Rikun, G. Stauffer, and E. Pratsini (2020). Robust Modeling and Planning: Insights from Three Industrial Applications, Operations Research Perspectives, 7: 100150. J. Lee, L. Marla and A. Jacquillat (2020). Dynamic Airline Disruption Management under Airport Operating Uncertainty. Transportation Science, Articles in Advance, June 2020. L. Marla, V. Vaze and C. Barnhart (2018). Robust Optimization: Lessons Learned from Aircraft Routing, Computers and Operations Research, 98: 165-184. A. Faghih-Imani, R. Hampshire, L. Marla and N. Eluru (2017). An Empirical Analysis of Bike Sharing Usage and Rebalancing: Evidence from Barcelona and Seville, Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice, 97: 177-191. L. Marla, B. Vaaben and C. Barnhart (2017). "Integrated Airline Disruption Management and Flight Planning to Tradeoff Delays and Fuel Burn," Transportation Science, 51(1): 88-111. L. Marla, C. Barnhart and V. Biyani (2014). "A Decomposition Approach for Robust Commodity Pickup and Delivery with Time-Windows under Uncertainty," Journal of Scheduling, 17(5), 489506. Articles in Conference Proceedings N. Eggenberg and L. Marla, Congestion in a competitive world: a study of the impact of competition on airline operations, in Proceedings of the Swiss Transport Research Conference (STRC) September 9-11, 2009. L. Marla and C. Barnhart (2011), A decomposition approach for shipment pickup and delivery for time-windows under uncertainty, in Proceedings of the Multidisciplinary International Scheduling Conference: Theory and Applications, August 9-12, 2011. R. Krishnan, L. Marla and Y. Yue, An Efficient Simulation-based Approach to Ambulance Allocation and Dynamic Redeployment, in Proceedings of the 26th Conference on Artificial Intelligence held by the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), July 22-26, 2012. Acceptance rate of 25%, similar to NIPS. K. Krishnan, L. Marla and Y. Yue, Robust Ambulance Allocation Using Risk-based Metrics, in Proceedings of the Intelligent Transportation Systems Workshop of COMSNETS (International Conference on Communication Systems and Networks) 2016. M. Baranwal, P.M. Parekh, L. Marla, S.M. Salapaka and C. Beck. Vehicle Routing Problem with Time-Windows: A Deterministic Annealing Approach, in Proceedings of the American Control Conference, 2016, Boston. N. Shukla, A. Kolbeinsson, K. Otwell, L. Marla and K. Yellepeddi, Dynamic Pricing for Airline Ancillaries with Customer Context, in Proceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD Conference on ACM Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, August 4-8, 2019. (acceptance rate ~14%) Naman Shukla, Arinbjorn Kolbeinsson, Lavanya Marla and Kartik Yellepeddi, Adaptive Model Selection Framework: An Application to Airline Pricing, Real-world Sequential Decision Making Workshop at the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), Long Beach, California, 2019. Max Z. Li, Karthik Gopalakrishnan, Hamsa Balakrishnan, Sang Hyun Shin, Darsh Jalan, Aritro Nandi and Lavanya Marla (2020). Dynamics of Disruption and Recovery in Air Transportation Networks Ninth International Conference on Research in Air Transportation (ICRAT), June 23-26, 2020, Tampa, Florida. Pending Articles P. McLaughlin, J. Shin and L. Marla, "Strategic Service Logistics Games with Customer-Induced Competition", invited for Major Revision, Management Science. Other Scholarly Activities Invited referee for the following journals: Management Science, Transportation Science, Manufacturing and Service Operations Management, Transportation Research-Part B, Decision Sciences, Networks, Transportation Research-Part E, Transportation Research-Part C, Transportation Research-Part A, Transportation Research-Part D, Journal of Scheduling, Journal of Air Transport Management, COmputers and Industrial Engineering, Annals of Operations Research, Production and Operations Management, Networks and Spatial Economics, Socio-Economic and Planning Sciences, Flexible Services and Manufacturing, Decision Analysis, 4OR. Other Outside Service Invited to judge the IIE Transactions' Best paper Award for INFORMS Invited to serve on the National Science Foundation's CMMI Panel Invited to judge the INFORMS Aviation Applications Section's Best Dissertation Award for 2014. Invited to serve on the National Science Foundation's Cyber-Physical Systems Panel Honors National Merit Scholarship Fellow, National Council for Educational Research and Training. (1998-2004 (awarded in 1998).) Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellowship. (2008-2009) Ann Hershfang Graduate Scholarship. (2010) US Department of Transportation Grant to establish a University Transportation Center (UTC) at Carnegie Mellon University (January 2012) Invited Keynote speaker, Society of Women Engineers (Fall 2015) Winner, Cross-Regional Collaboration Grant for 2017-2018 by the INFORMS Transportation Science and Logistics (TSL) Society, sponsored by Kalyx Warehousing; with Prof. Gitakrishnan Ramadurai as Co-PI. (Nov 2017) Honorable Mention in AGIFORS Anna Valicek Competition 2018, for paper Dynamic Airline Disruption Management under Airport Operating Uncertainty. (August 2018) Best Technical Presentation Award, AGIFORS Revenue Management Study Group Conference, AGIFORS 2019. (May 2019) KDD Startup Research Award, with Deepair Solutions, 25th ACM SIGKDD, 2019. (August 2019) Best Paper Award, System Performance Track, 2020 (September 2020) Courses Taught IE 360 - Facilities Planning and Design IE 514 - Optimiz Mthds Lrg Scale Ntwk IE 598 - Large-scale Ntwrk Optimization IE 598 - Optimiz Mthds Lrg Scale Ntwk Related news Artificial intelligence could help air travelers save a bundle ISE Professor Lavanya Marla and collaborators used artificial intelligence to design a customized pricing model for airline customers. New aircraft-scheduling models may ease air travel frustrations Lavanya Marla and her team have developed models to help the airline industry create schedules that are less susceptible to delay. Assistant Professor Lavanya Marla analyzes how airlines could incorporate flight planning on a network-wide level Assistant Professor Lavanya Marla analyzes how airlines could incorporate flight planning on a network-wide level. Professor Lavanya Marla addresses complexities in emergency health care in India An engineer brings to bear the full scope of her systems knowledge to address a problem affecting the health of billions of people View more related news Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Make a Gift Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 117 Transportation Building 104 S. Mathews Ave. MC-238 Urbana, IL 61801-3080 Administrative Offices 217-333-2731 Undergraduate Programs 217-333-0068 Graduate Programs 217-333-2730 Email: ise@illinois.edu Webmaster: communications@ise.illinois.edu Student Feedback Form Alumni Feedback Form Recent News Professor Kesavadas and colleagues develop robot to kill COVID-19 Driver behavior influences traffic patterns as much as roadway design, study reports New Mobile Prototype of U of I's COVID-19 Testing Program New Mobile Prototype of U of I's COVID-19 Testing Program ALL NEWS Seminars and Events Monday, November 30, 2020 Instruction resumes (remote only - students do not return to campus this semester) Friday, December 4, 2020, 10 a.m. ISE Graduate Seminar Series: Santanu Dey Wednesday, December 9, 2020 Last Day of Instruction, Fall Semester Thursday, December 10, 2020 Reading Day/IT No Change Period in effect Friday, December 11, 2020, 8:30 a.m. Final Exams Begin ALL EVENTS About Cookies Copyright 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
