Schettler, Jordan | People | San Jose State University Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). For the latest information on COVID-19, visit the Health Advisories website. Schettler, JordanSan Jos State University Site Navigation SJSU Home>People>Schettler, Jordan Schettler, Jordan one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU NavigateBACK to A-Z People Index Courses Publications & Presentations Research & Scholarly Activity Professional & Service Activity Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics Email Preferred: jordan.schettler@sjsu.edu Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics Education University of Arizona (Fall 2006 - Spring 2012)Ph.D., Mathematics, May 2012Advisor: William G. McCallumUniversity of Tennessee (Spring 2004 - Spring 2006)B.Sc. Summa Cum Laude, Honors Mathematics, May 2006Senior Thesis Advisor: Pavlos Tzermias Bio I was born and raised in Knoxville, Tennessee, in the shadow of the Great Smoky Mountains. From an early age, I had interests in both the arts and the sciences. I had a talent for mathematics but dreamed of becoming an artist and musician. I did not realize at the time that mathematics and creativity pair very nicely, and my path to becoming a mathematician turned out to be a nonstandard one: I spent a year after high school washing dishes at a BBQ restaurant and then stocking auto parts for a warehouse in 'Mechanicsville'. In my spare time, I would contemplate the irrationality/transcendence of pi, the distribution of prime numbers, properties of the Riemann zeta function, and other number theoretic topics. My parents and grandparents were extremely supportive of my ambition, and I owe much of my happiness and academic success to them. I met the love of my life Dana in Tucson, Arizona, while I was a graduate student. We married soon after moving to Santa Barbara, California, where I held a postdoctoral position for 3 years. We now have a son Lukas and are very excited to be in the San Jos area. Links Professor Schettler's Homepage https://sites.google.com/a/sjsu.edu/schettler/ SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs King Library Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San Jose State University One Washington Square, San Jose, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Last Modified: Mar 12, 2020
