David Holland Department of Mathematics Toggle navigation People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Research Areas Research Centers & Labs Postdoctoral and Visitor Programs Faculty Recognition Courses Course Descriptions Course Schedules Undergraduate Final Exam Schedule Instructors' Office Hours Guide to Submitting Grades in Albert PhD Overview Admissions & Financial Support Ph.D. in Mathematics Ph.D. in Atmosphere Ocean Science Awards Master's Overview Admissions M.S. in Mathematics M.S. in Scientific Computing M.S. in Mathematics in Finance Non-Degree Study Undergrad Overview Majors & Minors Advisement Activities & Research Calculus Information Placement Exams Alumni Tutoring Study Abroad Awards Resources Courant Resources Graduate Student Resource Pages Courant Library Courant Computing & Technology Calendars Seminars Events Courant Classroom Calendar & Reservations NYU Academic Calendar About Math @ Courant Contact Us Employment Directions Outreach People Faculty Postdocs Visitors Staff Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Alumni Departmental Leadership Research Courses PhD Master's Undergrad Resources Calendars About Faculty Profile David Holland Professor of Mathematics and Atmosphere/Ocean Science holland@cims.nyu.edu 212-998-3245 Warren Weaver Hall, Office 912 http://efdl.cims.nyu.edu/ Education Ph.D., Atmospheric and Ocean Sciences, McGill University, Canada, 1993. M.S., Physical Oceanography, Memorial University, Canada, 1986. B.A., Mathematics and Computer Science, Memorial University, Canada, 1993. B.S., Physics, Memorial University, Canada, 1984. Research Interests I am a physical climate scientist who studies phenomena relating to the Polar Regions and their impacts on global climate. My current research focuses on the computer modeling of the interaction of the Earths ice sheets with ocean waters, and the acquisition and implementation of observational data for model improvements. I have published more than 70 peer-reviewed articles on polar environmental science. I am a Professor of Mathematics and Atmosphere-Ocean Science at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at New York University, Director of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (EFDL) in New York City, and Director of the Center for Sea Level Change at New York University Abu Dhabi. Selected Publications X. Li, D.M. Holland, E.P. Gerber, and C. Yoo, "Impacts of the north and tropical Atlantic Ocean on the Antarctic Peninsula and sea ice", Nature 505, 538542, doi:10.1038/nature12945 (2014) D.M. Holland, R.H. Thomas, B. deYoung, M.H. Ribergaard, and B. Lyberth, "Acceleration of Jakobshavn Isbrae Triggered by Warm Subsurface Ocean Waters", Nature Geoscience 1, doi:10.1038/ngeo316 (2008) D.M. Holland, "Explaining the Weddell Polynya - A large ocean eddy shed at Maud Rise", Science 292, 1697-1700 (2001) Research Groups Center for Sea Level Change, NYU Abu Dhabi New York University Arts & Science College of Arts & Science Graduate School of Arts & Science Tandon School of Engineering Accessibility New York University
