Sheldon Howard Jacobson | Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering | Illinois skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Give News Courses Mottier Challenge My.ISE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Industrial & Enterprise Systems Engineering Search Menu About About Follow ISE Newsletter Archive ISE Rankings ISE Videos About ISE Prospective Students Student Profiles Research ISE Labs Online-MS MSFE Undergraduate Undergraduate Systems Engineering and Design Degree SED Curriculum Map SED Electives Secondary Field Option Industrial Engineering Degree IE Course map (Prior to Fall 2018) IE Course map (Starting Fall 2018) IE Electives Track Options Admitted Student Visit Days Advising Apply Now Financial Aid Companies Hiring ISE Graduates Contact Info ISE Courses Curriculum Engineering Image Contest Research Scholarships Senior Engineering Program Senior Engineering Program Awards Student Awards Student Feedback Form Student Societies Student Testimonials Undergraduate Resources Wait list Why ISE ISE Undergraduate Wiki ABET Where Are They Now Graduate Graduate Admissions Apply Now Eligibility and Requirements Tuition and Fees FAQ Degrees and Programs MS Financial Engineering MS Heath Technology MS Industrial Engineering MS Industrial EngineeringAdvanced Analytics Concentration MS (Online) Industrial Engineering MS Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering PhD Industrial Engineering PhD Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering Online Non-degree Options Advanced Analytics Certificate ISE Courses All ISE Courses Courses and Faculty by Research Area Student Success Financial Support Contact Us Research Research Data Analytics Decision and Control Systems Design and Manufacturing Financial Engineering Operations Research Labs Autonomous and Unmanned Vehicle Systems Laboratory (AUVSL) Decision Systems Laboratory Engineering System Design Laboratory Enterprise Systems Optimizations Laboratory Flexible Manufacturing Laboratory Human Factors in Sociotechnical Systems (HFSS) Laboratory Mechatronics Laboratory Monolithic Systems Laboratory Nondestructive Testing and Evaluation Research Laboratory Operations Research Laboratory Product Design Laboratory Reliability and Safety Assurance Laboratory Senior Engineering Project Design Studio Directory Directory Faculty Administration Grad Students Faculty Awards Alumni Alumni Alumni News Update Your Contact and Employment Information Alumni Awards Join the Alumni Board Be an Engineer in Residence Program Follow ISE Where Are They Now? Alumni Album Corporate Partners Corporate Partners Become a Corporate Partner Senior Engineering Program ISE After Hours Participating Companies Mottier Challenge Mottier Challenge Mottier Challenge 2019 Winners Mottier Challenge 2018 Winners Mottier Challenge 2017 Winners Giving Giving Give Now Funding Priorities Ways to Give News News Follow ISE Enewsletter Print Newsletter Archive Alumni News Courses In this section Sheldon Howard Jacobson Professor phone: email: shj@illinois.edu For more information Sheldon Jacobson's web page. Biography Sheldon H. Jacobson is a Founder Professor of Computer Science, Director of the Simulation and Optimization Laboratory, and Founding Director of the Bed Time Research Institute at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He holds appointments in Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics, and the College of Medicine. He has a B.Sc. and M.Sc. in Mathematics from McGill University and a Ph.D. in Operations Research from Cornell University. He has served on the faculties at Case Western Reserve University (Weatherhead School of Management, 1988-1993), Virginia Tech (Industrial and Systems Engineering, 1993-1999), and the University of Illinois (1999-present). He has published 186 peer-reviewed articles, 11 book chapters, 50 conference proceedings, 45 professional and editorial publications, and delivered over 510 presentation, seminars and posters at conferences, universities, and research laboratories around the world. He has directed 23 Ph.D. dissertations and been awarded over $5M of research support from the National Science Foundation and the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. As Director of the Bed Time Research Institute, he spearheaded the creation of two research videos (A Healthy Collaboration: Pediatric Immunization and Operations Research, Aviation Security: Researching the Risk.) and launched four websites, all designed to communicate the value of basic research through Broader Impact activities, and promulgate STEM activities for enhancing and growing a technically literate citizenry. (http://bracketodds.cs.illinois.edu, , http://electionanalytics.cs.illinois.edu, http://drivingobesity.cs.illinois.edu, http://redistricting.cs.illinois.edu).He has made several seminal research contributions, all focusing on applying operations research and optimization-based artificial intelligence to address societal problems of national interest. He launched the research field, aviation security analytics, demonstrating how probabilistic models, optimization, and artificial intelligence can be used to improve the performance of aviation security systems. His research on multi-level aviation security passenger screening at airports was the precursor to risk-based security, providing the foundational concepts that informed the design and implementation of TSA Precheck (see the presentation he delivered on 3 October 2003 to the TSA outlining the benefits and foundations for differential passenger screening; see also the video). His contributions have been recognized with numerous awards, including a 2003 Guggenheim Fellowship and the 2018 INFORMS Impact Prize, given biennially to recognize widespread impact of operations research. His research on the design of pediatric vaccine formularies introduced the use of operations research in the pediatric immunization domain. His research on bridging obesity, transportation, and fuel consumption established the impact of transportation on obesity, providing the foundation for non-medical obesity interventions based on modes of transportation. His research on computational redistricting demonstrates how optimization-based AI can be used to combat gerrymandering by creating a transparent environment for designing and evaluating district maps. His research has been widely reported and communicated in the national press, including the Washington Post, the Chicago Tribune, the Los Angeles Times, and the Boston Globe, editorialized in the New York Times, and discussed in Business Week, Forbes, Kiplinger, and The Osgood Files on CBS radio. He has appeared on The Street Signs (CNBC), The Closing Bell (CNBC), Weekends with Alex Witt (MSNBC), Washington Post Radio, CBS This Morning, CBC Canada News (television and radio), and BBC World News (television and radio). His views have been published as opinion-editorials and letters in the Washington Post, Quartz, CNN Opinion, Inside Higher Ed, the Wall Street Journal, and the Chicago Tribune.He has been recognized with numerous awards, including a Guggenheim Fellowship (2003), the INFORMS Impact Prize (2018), the IISE David F. Baker Distinguished Research Award (2017), IISE Award for Technical Innovation in Industrial Engineering (2010, 2013), the Aviation Security Research Award (Aviation Security International) (2002), the IIE Outstanding Publication Award (2009), the Award for Excellence in the Teaching of Operations Research (IISE Operations Research Division) (2011), and runner-up for the Christopher Columbus Homeland Security Award (Transportation and Border Security) (2010). He is an elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS, 2020), the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS, 2013) and the Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE, 2011). He has also received several best paper and poster awards, including the 2019 Best Service Science paper for his research on computational redistricting.His leadership and expertise have been used by both government and professional societies. He briefed personnel within the Office of Science and Technology Policy (in the executive Office of President George W. Bush) (August 2002, Washington, DC) on issues related to aviation security and assessing the cost and benefit of checked baggage screening strategies. He briefed the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practice (ACIP) on a web-site he co-developed for designing optimal pediatric vaccine formularies (October 2001, Atlanta, Georgia.) He served on committees for the National Academies, including the National Research Council Committee on Airport Passenger Screening: Backscatter X-Ray Machines (2013-2015), the National Academy of Medicine (NAM) Standing Committee for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Division of Strategic National Stockpile (2015-2017), and A Workshop on Medical-Product Shortages: Effects on Patient Health and Opportunities to Predict, Prevent, and Respond to Them (2018). He led the NSF-Funded workshop (May 2016, Arlington, VA), Setting a Broader Impacts Innovation Roadmap, in creating new pathways for enhancing Broader Impacts in the Engineering Directorate at the NSF. He served as the (elected) Treasurer for the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) (2015-2016) and as a Program Director in the Division of Civil, Mechanical, and Manufacturing Innovation at the National Science Foundation (2012-2014). He was an invited panelist at the 2019 INFORMS Government and Analytics Summit. Courses Taught CS 481 - Adv Stochastic Process & Appl CS 481 - Stochastic Processes & Applic CS 482 - Simulation CS 498 - Special Topics IE 410 - Adv Stochastic Process & Appl IE 410 - Stochastic Processes & Applic IE 413 - Simulation Related news Mass killings happen randomly, yet rate has remained steady, study finds ISE lecturer Doug King and Affilliate Professor Sheldon Jacobson develop new algorithm for congressional redistricting Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers honors ISE Affiliate Professor Sheldon H. Jacobson with the David F. Baker Distinguished Research Award ISE Affiliate Professor Sheldon H. Jacobson, whose work in the analysis of complex systems is well known for informing public policy, has won an award in industrial engineering that recognizes his decades of research and its impact. Study: Higher mass transit use associated with lower obesity rates View more related news Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Make a Gift Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 117 Transportation Building 104 S. Mathews Ave. MC-238 Urbana, IL 61801-3080 Administrative Offices 217-333-2731 Undergraduate Programs 217-333-0068 Graduate Programs 217-333-2730 Email: ise@illinois.edu Webmaster: communications@ise.illinois.edu Student Feedback Form Alumni Feedback Form Recent News How to make the most of your undergraduate education and the rest of your life: ICC Chairman Carrie Zalewski (BSGE 2001) Engineering and the career of ICC Chairman Carrie Zalewski (BSGE 2001) Illinois team awarded NSF funding for robotic wheelchair Professor Kesavadas and colleagues develop robot to kill COVID-19 ALL NEWS Seminars and Events Monday, January 25, 2021 First Day of Instruction, Spring Semester Thursday, February 4, 2021, 11 a.m. - 11:50 a.m. SE 290 - Koji Intlekofer Thursday, February 11, 2021, 11 a.m. - 11:50 a.m. SE 290 - John White Wednesday, February 17, 2021, 8:30 a.m. Day Off - no classes Wednesday, March 24, 2021, 8:30 a.m. Day Off - no classes ALL EVENTS About Cookies Copyright 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
