Abigail Wooldridge | Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering | Illinois skip to main content University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Give News Courses Mottier Challenge My.ISE University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign The Grainger College of Engineering Industrial & Enterprise Systems Engineering Search Menu About About Follow ISE Newsletter Archive ISE Rankings ISE Videos About ISE Prospective Students Student Profiles Research ISE Labs Online-MS MSFE Undergraduate Undergraduate Systems Engineering and Design Degree SED Curriculum Map SED Electives Secondary Field Option Industrial Engineering Degree IE Course map (Prior to Fall 2018) IE Course map (Starting Fall 2018) IE Electives Track Options Admitted Student Visit Days Advising Apply Now Financial Aid Companies Hiring ISE Graduates Contact Info ISE Courses Curriculum Engineering Image Contest Research Scholarships Senior Engineering Program Senior Engineering Program Awards Student Awards Student Feedback Form Student Societies Student Testimonials Undergraduate Resources Wait list Why ISE ISE Undergraduate Wiki ABET Where Are They Now Graduate Graduate Admissions Apply Now Eligibility and Requirements Tuition and Fees FAQ Degrees and Programs MS Financial Engineering MS Heath Technology MS Industrial Engineering MS Industrial EngineeringAdvanced Analytics Concentration MS (Online) Industrial Engineering MS Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering PhD Industrial Engineering PhD Systems and Entrepreneurial Engineering Online Non-degree Options Advanced Analytics Certificate ISE Courses All ISE Courses Courses and Faculty by Research Area Student Success Financial Support Contact Us Research Research Data Analytics Decision and Control Systems Design and Manufacturing Financial Engineering Operations Research Labs Autonomous and Unmanned Vehicle Systems Laboratory (AUVSL) Decision Systems Laboratory Engineering System Design Laboratory Enterprise Systems Optimizations Laboratory Flexible Manufacturing Laboratory Human Factors in Sociotechnical Systems (HFSS) Laboratory Mechatronics Laboratory Monolithic Systems Laboratory Nondestructive Testing and Evaluation Research Laboratory Operations Research Laboratory Product Design Laboratory Reliability and Safety Assurance Laboratory Senior Engineering Project Design Studio Directory Directory Faculty Administration Grad Students Faculty Awards Alumni Alumni Alumni News Update Your Contact and Employment Information Alumni Awards Join the Alumni Board Be an Engineer in Residence Program Follow ISE Where Are They Now? Alumni Album Corporate Partners Corporate Partners Become a Corporate Partner Senior Engineering Program ISE After Hours Participating Companies Mottier Challenge Mottier Challenge Mottier Challenge 2019 Winners Mottier Challenge 2018 Winners Mottier Challenge 2017 Winners Giving Giving Give Now Funding Priorities Ways to Give News News Follow ISE Enewsletter Print Newsletter Archive Alumni News Courses In this section Abigail Wooldridge Primary Research Area Design and Manufacturing Assistant Professor 209A Transportation Building phone: (217) 300-8086 email: arwool@illinois.edu For more information Human Factors in Sociotechnical Systems Laboratory Education Ph.D., Industrial Engineering, University of Wisconsin Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, 2018. Thesis: "Team Cognition Distributed in Spatio-Temporal Processes: A Macroergonomic Approach to Trauma Care" M.S., Industrial and Systems Engineering (Human Factors and Ergonomics), University of Wisconsin Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, 2013 M.Eng. (with thesis), Industrial Engineering (Operations Research and Applied Statistics), University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky, 2012. Thesis: "Modeling the workflow of one primary care physician-nurse team." B.S., Industrial Engineering, University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky, 2011 Biography Professor Wooldridge is looking for research assistants! For more information, go here! Academic Positions Assistant Professor (0%), Department of Biomedical and Translational Sciences, Carle Illinois College of Medicine, Urbana, Illinois, 2020 - Present Courtesy (0%) Appointment, Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, 2020 - Present Courtesy (0%) Appointment, School of Information Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, 2019 - Present Courtesy (0%) Appointment, Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, 2019 - Present Affiliate Faculty (0%), Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, 2018-Present Assistant Professor, Department of Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, 2018 - Present Research Statement Professor Wooldridge's research addresses the design of complex sociotechnical systems, primarily in healthcare settings, using mixed methods approaches to improve outcomes. In healthcare, that means patient outcomes (e.g., patient safety, quality of care) as well as clinician outcomes (e.g., workload, burnout). She has conducted research focused on primary care, care coordination of patients with chronic conditions (hospital to community care transitions) and trauma care. Her dissertation, conducted in the context of a larger project developing health information technology to support teamwork and care transitions, took a macroergonomic approach to studying care transitions of trauma patients. She then examined on the handoff communication associated with those handoffs as instances of team cognition. Current projects include continuing to study care transitions; she plans to conduct observation studies of inpatient care transitions between hospital units as well as return to the community care setting by studying hospital discharge care transitions. Part of this work will explore the concept of the patient journey, i.e., spatio-temporal distribution of patients interactions with multiple care settings (e.g., hospitals, clinics, home, long-term care, etc.) over time. She plans to develop interventions, such as redesigned processes, new technologies, etc., to improve care transitions; this will involve participatory design processes and usability evaluations in her lab and/or simulated settings such as JUMP Simulation. A third area of research includes developing ways to measure team cognition, particular in care transitions. Key components of her research approach include engaging frontline workers (patients and their family as well as various healthcare professionals) and utilizing mixed methods, i.e., both qualitative and quantitative, research designs.Check out the Human Factors in Sociotechnical Systems Laboratory, directed by Dr. Wooldridge, website at https://hfss.ise.illinois.edu/contact-us/ Graduate Research Opportunities Human factors is a diverse field, and much of the work we do requires knowledge from multiple disciplines. Therefore, Professor Wooldridge is interested in having students from various majors including industrial engineering, computer science, psychology, health sciences, community health, and related fields. A good starting point for all interested graduate students is to send an email to Professor Wooldridge that describes: Your previous research and/or work experience Why you specifically want to work with Professor Wooldridge How your research interests align with the Macroergonomics and Complex Systems Lab. Undergraduate Research Opportunities Getting involved in research is a great way to apply knowledge learned in class and enhance your education - it is also a great way to explore the idea of graduate school. Students can get involved in projects in various stages, through a variety of ways. Interested students should email Professor Wooldridge directly. Human factors is a diverse field, and much of the work we do requires knowledge from multiple disciplines. Therefore, Professor Wooldridge is interested in having students from various majors including industrial engineering, computer science, psychology, health sciences, community health, and related fields. Research Interests Patient journey Patient safety Care transitions Teams Team cognition Sociotechnical systems Macroergonomics Human factors and ergonomics Research Areas Design and Manufacturing Books Edited or Co-Edited (Original Editions) Roscoe R. D., Chiou, E. & Wooldridge, A. R. (Eds.). Advancing Diversity, Inclusion and Social Justice through Human Factors. Boca Raton: CRC Press, https://doi.org/10.1201/9780429425905. Chapters in Books Carayon, P., Kianfar, S., Li, Y., & Wooldridge, A. (2015). Organizational design: Macroergonomics as a foundation for human systems integration. In D. A. Boehm-Davis, F. T. Durso & J. D. Lee (Eds.), APA Handbook of Human Systems Integration (1 ed., pp. pp.573-588). Washington, D.C.: American Psychological Association. Carayon, P. & Wooldridge, A. R. Improving patient safety through the patient journey: Contributions from human factors engineering. In A. E. Smith (Ed.), Women in Industrial and Systems Engineering: Key Advances and Perspectives on Emerging Topics. Springer. Selected Articles in Journals Hose, B.-Z., Hoonakker, P. L. T., Wooldridge, A. R., Ross, J., Kohler, J., Brazelton, T., Eithun, B., Kelly, M., Dean, S., Rusy, D., Gurses, A., Feckler, J. & Carayon, P. (2019) Physicians Perceptions of the Problem List in Pediatric Trauma Care. Applied Clinical Informatics, 10(1):113-122. Carayon, P., Wooldridge, A. R., Hose, B.-Z., Salwei, M. & Benneyan, J. (2018) Improving Patient Safety Through Human Factors and Systems Engineering: Opportunities and Challenges. Health Affairs, 37(11), 1862-1869. Wooldridge, A. R., Carayon, P., Hoonakker, P. L. T., Hose, B.-Z., Ross, J., Kohler, J., Brazelton, T., Eithun, B., Kelly, M., Dean, S., Rusy, D., Durojaiye, A. & Gurses, A. (Accepted). Complexity of the Pediatric Trauma Care Process: Implications for Multi-Level Awareness. Cognition, Technology and Work. Wooldridge, A. R., Carayon, P., Eagan, B., & Shaffer, D. W. (2018). Quantifying the Qualitative with Epistemic Network Analysis: A Human Factors Case Study of Task-Allocation Communication in a Primary Care Team. IISE Transactions on Healthcare Systems Engineering. DOI: 10.1080/24725579.2017.1418769 Wooldridge, A. R., Carayon, P., Hundt, A. S., & Hoonakker, P. L. T. (2017). SEIPS-based process modeling in primary care. Applied Ergonomics, 60, 240-254. Carayon, P., Kianfar, S., Li, Y., Xie, A., Alyousef, B., & Wooldridge, A. (2015). A systematic review of mixed methods research on human factors and ergonomics in health care. Applied Ergonomics, 51, 291-321. Professional Societies Alpha Pi Mu; Chapter Vice-President 2011-2012 Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honors Society; Inaugural Student Advisory Board Member 2013; Chapter President, Convention Delegate 2011-2012; National Awards Committee Chair 2011 Human Factors and Ergonomics Society; Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Diversity Committee Member 2017-2020 Courses Taught IE 340 - Human Factors IE 498 - Job and Organization Design IE 598 - Field Research in Health Care IE 598 - Job and Organization Design PSYC 358 - Human Factors Related news New mobile COVID-19 lab prototype completed Professor Abigail Wooldridge is project lead for mobileSHIELD, a mobile COVID-19 testing laboratory Illinois Rapidvent Expecting a severe shortage of ventilators to help people suffering from the most serious cases of COVID-19, on March 16, 2020, a team of more than 40 engineers, doctors, medical professionals, designers, and manufacturing experts from industry launched an Apollo 13-style project to help address that need. RuthAnn Haefli (BSSED 2020): Star Student Researcher Coming into the ISE department as a Systems Engineering and Design, RuthAnn Haefli may have been conflicted about what her secondary field option would be, but because of her experience with computer-assisted design (CAD) she knew systems engineering and design was the perfect fit Abigail Wooldridge: Just What the Doctor Ordered In a real hospital setting, this team communication must be clear and coordinated, or the consequences can be fatal, says Abigail Wooldridge. View more related news Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Make a Gift Industrial and Enterprise Systems Engineering The Grainger College of Engineering University of Illinois 117 Transportation Building 104 S. Mathews Ave. MC-238 Urbana, IL 61801-3080 Administrative Offices 217-333-2731 Undergraduate Programs 217-333-0068 Graduate Programs 217-333-2730 Email: ise@illinois.edu Webmaster: communications@ise.illinois.edu Student Feedback Form Alumni Feedback Form Recent News How to make the most of your undergraduate education and the rest of your life: ICC Chairman Carrie Zalewski (BSGE 2001) Engineering and the career of ICC Chairman Carrie Zalewski (BSGE 2001) Illinois team awarded NSF funding for robotic wheelchair Professor Kesavadas and colleagues develop robot to kill COVID-19 ALL NEWS Seminars and Events Monday, January 25, 2021 First Day of Instruction, Spring Semester Thursday, February 4, 2021, 11 a.m. - 11:50 a.m. SE 290 - Koji Intlekofer Thursday, February 11, 2021, 11 a.m. - 11:50 a.m. SE 290 - John White Wednesday, February 17, 2021, 8:30 a.m. Day Off - no classes Wednesday, March 24, 2021, 8:30 a.m. Day Off - no classes ALL EVENTS About Cookies Copyright 2020 University of Illinois Board of Trustees Cookie Policy | Privacy Powered by SiteManager | Contact Webmaster Go to top
