Applied Management Research (AMR) | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content Apply For Companies Give Home > Centers > Center for Global Management > Faculty & Research > Applied Management Research (AMR) Applied Management Research (AMR) Applied Management Research The Center for Global Management supports projects that focus on global social enterprise and community impact to broaden students awareness of issues facing entrepreneurial development within emerging markets. Applied Management Research (AMR)is the field study requirement for the full-time MBA program and serves as the capstone project for second-year students. The Center for Global Management supports projects that focus on global social enterprise and community impact to broaden students' awareness of issues facing entrepreneurial development within emerging markets. Research grants are awarded to student teams based on project scope, depth of research and research methodology. The CGM provides research funding to enable students to conduct primary research - an integral component of the AMR project - that usually supports one or two primary research field visits. Teams travel in-country to perform market surveys, interview key stakeholders and conduct focus groups to understand the needs and demographics of customers, competitors and suppliers, as well as comprehend governmental policies. Since the 2012-13 academic year, the CGM has supported more than 70 global projectsacross Latin America, Asia, Africa, Europeand Oceania and awarded more than $300,000 in research funding to benefit around 380 students. Company Information AMR provides Fortune 500 companies, nonprofits, startups and small and medium sized enterprises around the world with an opportunity to engage a team of MBA students. Student Information Students embark on a 20-week project and partner with their client to solve a key strategic issue. Administration Jeff Scheinrock, Lecturer, AMR Faculty Director Chelsea Goossens, Program Director, Applied Management Research Program Timetable for Students For a complete schedule for fall/winter and winter/spring teams, please visit the AMR website. For students interested in applying for CGM funding, a presentation must be made once the team's research plan is prepared for submission to the AMR office. Please contact Lucy Allardfor more information. 2018-2019 Teams During the 201819 academic year, among the 70 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 19 AMR teams (totaling 95 students) were engaged in an international project. These included nine collaborations with nonprofits, for which the CGM awarded funding to six teams. An additional 10 AMR teams working with for-profit clients were engaged in projects that involved traveling to another country to conduct primary research, with the exception of one. Those teams traveled to Argentina Chile, Colombia, England, Fiji, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Micronesia and Samoa. The project of one additional AMR team was also classified as international for the purposes of satisfying the global requirement of the full-time MBA program, as it was deemed to include a substantial component of international secondary research. Taken together, around 26 percent of the full-time MBA Class of 2019 were engaged in an international field study project. Among the 28 EMBA teams completing a Strategic Management Research (SMR) project or BCO, three SMR teams (totaling 15 students) were engaged in an international project with nonprofit organizations. The CGM supported these teams, which traveled to Guyana, Suriname and India to conduct their primary research. Conservation International, Southeast Asia Achieving a Sustainable Rubber Value Chain to Reduce Deforestation in Indonesia FINCA Peru Expanding Microfinance Capabilities in Rural Areas of Peru and Empowering the Peruvian Woman through Microfinance Human Sciences Research Council, South Africa Bringing Affordable Internet Access to the Sweetwaters Community in South Africa 2017-2018 Teams During the 201718 academic year, among the 69 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 17 AMR teams (totaling 85 students) were engaged in an international project. These included 12 collaborations with nonprofits, for which the CGM awarded funding to 11 teams. An additional five AMR teams working with for-profit clients were engaged in projects that involved traveling to another country to conduct primary research. Those teams traveled to China, England, Taiwan, Indonesia and South Korea. The projects of one additional AMR and three BCO teams (totaling 21 students) were also classified as international for the purposes of satisfying the global requirement of the full-time MBA program, as they each were deemed to include a substantial component of international secondary research. Taken together, almost 30 percent of the full-time MBA Class of 2018 were engaged in an international field study project. The CGM supplemented research funding provided by the AMR and GAP offices and supported eleven AMR teams and one GAP team that conducted primary research for projects in Botswana, Chile, Ecuador, Guatemala, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Peru, South Africa and Thailand. Conservation International, Peru Developing an Environmentally Sustainable Value Chain for Coffee Production in San Martin, Peru. International Labour Organization ACT/EMP, Chile and Jamaica Exploring Gender Diversity in Management Roles and Increasing Business Leaders Engagement. Lynk, Kenya Finding the Lynk for Kenyan Workers and Communities: Devising a Marketing Strategy for Customer Acquisition and Engagement to Achieve Sustainable Growth 2016-2017 Teams During the 2016-17 academic year, among the 76 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 13 AMR teams were engaged in an international project (totaling 64 students), which included 7 non-profit projects of which the CGM awarded funding to 6 teams. Besides the six teams that the CGM supported, an additional 7 AMR teams were engaged in projects that involved traveling to another country for primary research. The projects of 5 BCO teams (totaling 18 students) were also deemed to be international and satisfy the global requirement of the full-time MBA program, as they each included a substantial component of international secondary research. Taken together, almost 25 percent of the full-time MBA Class of 2017 participated in an international field study project. The CGM supplemented research funding provided by the AMR office and supported 6 AMR teams who conducted primary research for projects in Chile, Ecuador, Guatemala, Indonesia, Myanmar, Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa and Thailand. Conservation International, Ecuador Creating Economic Incentives for Participation in Conservation Efforts by Fishing Communities in Ecuador Human Sciences Research Council, South Africa Identifying a Sustainable, Scalable Business Model to Provide Screening, Treatment and Education on Non-Communicable Diseases to an Underserved, Rural Community in South Africa International Labor Organization Fragile Zones, Southeast Asia Developing a Strategic Framework to Promote Foreign Investment and Local Employment in Conflict Affected Zones in Southeast Asia Nigerian Export Promotion Council, Nigeria Developing a Strategy to Broaden Nigerias Non-Oil Exports to the U.S. and Leverage the African Growth Opportunity Act Strategies for International Development, Guatemala Developing a Marketing Plan and Mock Audit of SIDs Operations to Better Promote the Eradication of Rural Poverty Among Farmers in Guatemala 2015-2016 Teams During the 201516 academic year, among the 71 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 24 teams were engaged in an international project (totaling 118 students), of which the CGM supported 17 teams. Twenty-two teams were engaged in projects that involved traveling to another country for primary research, while the projects of another two teams (totaling nine students) were deemed to be international and satisfied the global requirement of the full-time MBA program, as they each included a substantial component of international secondary research. Almost 35 percent of the Class of 2016 participated in an international field study project. The CGM supplemented research funding provided by the AMR office that allowed for 17 AMR teams to carry out primary research for projects in Bali, Chile, China, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Kenya, Marshall Islands, Nepal, Peru, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand, Uganda, the United Kingdom and Zambia. Kopernik, Bali Recommendations on Launching a Social Enterprise to Develop Effective Waste Management Solutions in Bali Republic of Zambia, Zambia Developing Business Tools to Assist the Zambian Government to Increase Trade with the United States Via the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act Strategies for International Development, Guatemala Identifying Operational Recommendations and Process Improvements to Eradicate Rural Poverty and Improve Income for Coffee Farmers in Guatemala FINCA Peru Identifying New Financial and Non-Financial Products and Services for FINCA Perus Rural Farming Clients to Empower Communities Mercy Corps, Nepal Developing a Strategy to Enable Pashmina Producers to Increase Exports to U.S. Markets and Increase Economic Development in Nepal Bertha Center for Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Solution Space, University of Cape Town, South Africa Fostering Entrepreneurship A Gap Analysis and Scalability Viability Study for a Social Entrepreneurship Incubator in South Africa 2014-2015 Teams During the 2014-15 academic year, of the total 75 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 23 teams were engaged in an international project (totaling 115 students). 20 teams were engaged in projects that involved traveling to another country for primary research, while the projects of another 3 teams (totaling 15 students) were deemed to be international and to satisfy the global requirement of the MBA program as they each included a substantial component of international secondary research. In total, this comprises almost 32% percent of the class of 2015.During 2014-15, the CGM supplemented research funding provided by the AMR office that allowed for 10 AMR teams and one Anderson Strategy Group team to carry out primary research for projects in Australia, Brazil, Ethiopia, Fiji and Samoa, India, Kenya, Morocco, Peru, Uganda, UK and Vietnam. Simpatica - Peru How Simpatica Should Vertically Integrate its' Avocado Supply Chain Agastya - India Maintaining a High Quality Classroom at Scale to Economically Disadvantaged Children in Rural India Center for Maternal & Newborn Health - United Kingdom Sustainable Growth and Funding Strategies for the Centre of Maternal & Newborn Health, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine Albert Einstein College of Medicine - Ethiopia & Uganda Recommendations for Developing the Hawassa University Referral Hospital Breast Cancer Unit as a Model of Oncology Care UCLA School of Nursing - Kenya Piloting a Mhealth Project in Kenya to Reduce Maternal Mortality Sports and Social Change - Brazil Increasing Access to Adaptive Sports - Impact of 3D Printing 2013-2014 Teams During the 2013-14 academic year, of the total 74 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 20 teams (totaling 100 students) were engaged in projects that involved traveling to another country for primary research, while the projects of another five teams (totaling 25 students) were deemed to be international and to satisfy the international requirement of the Full-time MBA program as they each included a substantial component of international secondary research. In total, this comprised almost 35 percent of the class of 2014. During 2013-2014, the CGM supplemented research funding provided by the AMR office that allowed for 13 teams to carry out primary research for projects in Cambodia, Cameroon, Chile, Ecuador, Ethiopia, India, Italy, Kenya, Mexico, Mongolia, Philippines, Tanzania and Uganda. Other teams traveled to Mexico, Spain, and France. Albert Einstein School of Medicine - Ethiopia Improving breast cancer care in Ethiopia - Recommending a self-sustainable business model for the Hawassa Breast Cancer Clinic Conservation International - Galapagos Ecuador Developing a financial model to communicate potential investment returns within the Galapagos lobster fisher Conservation international- Galera, San Francisco - Ecuador Analyzing the market and developing a value chain for artisanal fisheries to capitalize on current market conditions Global Wellness - Cameroon Analyzing the impacts of industrial logging in Cameroon Intra Health - Kenya Stregnthening systems and improving distribution of healthcare services in Kenya Mercy Corps - Uganda Developing a sustainable retail distribution model to bring socially beneficial goods to dispersed communities in Uganda Out and Equal - Italy and India Workplace Equality On A Global Scale: Developing A Strategy and Operating Model for Global Expansion Vittana - Phillipines Growing the presence of microfinance driven student loans in higher education in the Phillipines 2012-2013 Teams During the 2012-13 academic year, of the total 77 teams completing an AMR project or BCO (business creation option), 17 had an international research component. The CGM provided funding to seven teams to carry out primary research for projects in Uganda, Tanzania, Liberia, Peru, India and the Philippines. Other student teams traveled to China and Suriname and researched topics such as Hepatitis B awareness and sustainable water programs. Assessing the Feasibility of Launching a Micro-Investment Product in India. Analyzing the Global Health Market in Uganda. Analyzing the Potential of the Industrial Logging Sector and Alternative Forest Uses in Liberia. Agricultural Technology and Financing Assessment in Peru. Labor Market Analysis and Review of Student Loan Demand and Assessment Process in the Philippines. 2011-2012 Teams During the 2011-2012 academic year, the center sponsored six teams who carried out research projects in China, Peru, Brazil, and the South Pacific island nations of Kiribati and Vanuatu. Two AMR teams worked with a client organization that is a network of microfinance organizations working in Fiji, Samoa and Tonga, in the South Pacific. It is dedicated to eradicating poverty by empowering women in poor rural villages with the opportunity to start, grow and maintain sustainable, income generating micro-enterprises. One team prepared a market entry strategy for the organization to enter Kiribati, and another team analyzed whether the client organization should enter the microfinance market in Vanuatu or acquire an existing microfinance institution. AMR Team - Brazil AMR Team - China AMR Team Kiribati AMR Team - Peru AMR Team Vanuatu Case Studies Conservation International, Southeast Asia: Achieving a Sustainable Rubber Value Chain to Reduce Deforestation in Indonesia Read More View Video FINCA Peru: Expanding Microfinance Capabilities in Rural Areas of Peru and Empowering the Peruvian Woman through Microfinance Read More View Video Human Sciences Research Council, South Africa: Bringing Affordable Internet Access to the Sweetwaters Community in South Africa Read More View Video Explore Our Center Center for Global Management Overview Programs Global Degree Immersion & Specialization Specialization in Global Management Global Immersion Courses FEMBA and EMBA International Exchange Career and Personal Development Global Management Seminars for Visiting Students Faculty & Research Faculty and Doctoral Faculty in the News Global Access Program (GAP) Applied Management Research (AMR) MBA Research Assistants Events Conferences Wilbur K. Woo Greater China Business Conference Overview Latin American Business Conference Other Global Conferences Academic and Research Conferences Global Management Speaker & Lecture Series Global Business & Policy Forums Robertson Lecture Series on Global Business Leadership Brown Bag Luncheons and Dinners for Eight External Collaborative Partnerships World Today Discussion Series About The CGM Video Gallery Faculty For Visitors campus tour maps & directions master calendar facility use For Companies recruit a student post a job consulting teams for GAP companies For the News Media media relations ucla anderson forecast anderson in the news faculty directory faculty expertise directory site index portal library UCLA feedback UC Regents
