Faculty Advisors | UCLA Anderson School of Management About About About Home Our Character Our Strategic Plan Our Dean Our Leadership Our History Office of Development Office of Development Office of Development Home Anderson Leadership Giving Challenge Campaign Impact Campaign Priorities Office of Development Campaign Priorities Marion Anderson Hall Student Support Centers and Programs Faculty Discretionary How to Give Dean's Society Reunion Giving Office of Development Reunion Giving 1980 Fellowship Anderson Affiliates Office of Development Anderson Affiliates Full-time MBA Affiliates EMBA Affiliates Our Team Clubs & Associations Commencement Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Home Embracing Diversity Week ECHO Events and Highlights Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events and Highlights The Bradford-Osborne Research Award Resources Hear to Include Student Advisory Council Asian@Anderson Black@Anderson Latinx@Anderson LGBTQ@Anderson Veterans@Anderson Women@Anderson Information & Technology Information & Technology Information & Technology Home New Faculty Information New PhD Information New MBA Student Information New MFE Student Information New MSBA Student Information Meet Our Team Anderson Computing & Information Services (Intranet Portal) Rosenfeld Library For Companies Consulting Teams Degrees Degrees Degrees Home Full-Time MBA Full-Time MBA Full-Time MBA Home Admissions Full-Time MBA Admissions Request Information Requirements Events Class Profile Liveguide Webinars International Applicants Concurrent Degrees FAQ Admission Policies Consortium Candidates Academics Full-Time MBA Academics Customizable Schedule Flexibility & Specializations Capstone Project Faculty Academic Centers Global Options Academic Calendar Career Impact Full-Time MBA Career Impact Consulting Career Path Marketing Career Path Entertainment Career Path Technology Career Path Finance Career Path Social Impact Career Path Health Care Career Path Entrepreneurship Career Path Real Estate Career Path Culture Full-Time MBA Culture Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Living in L.A. Family Life Clubs & Associations Embracing Diversity Financing Full-Time MBA Financing Financing Opportunities Financing Requirements Connect With Our Students Meet Our Team Full-Time MBA Meet Our Team Contact Us Getting Here Fully Employed MBA Fully Employed MBA Fully Employed MBA Home Admissions Fully Employed MBA Admissions Admissions Events Assistant Dean's Advice Connect with a Student International Applicants UC Transfers Military and Veterans Admissions Policies FAQ Academics Fully Employed MBA Academics Specializations Capstone Project Global Experience Faculty Flexible Options Fully Employed MBA Flexible Options Hybrid Career Impact Culture Fully Employed MBA Culture Drive Time Podcast Clubs & Associations Financing Meet our Team Fully Employed MBA Meet our Team Contact Us Getting Here Executive MBA Executive MBA Executive MBA Home Admissions Executive MBA Admissions Class Profile Events Requirements and Deadlines International Applicants Active Duty Military FAQ Admission Policies Academics Executive MBA Academics Flexible Schedules Leadership Electives/Certificates Global Experience Capstone Executive MBA Capstone For Companies Executive MBA For Companies FAQ Faculty Academic Centers Career Impact Culture Executive MBA Culture Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion Networking Conferences and Special Events Clubs and Associations UCLA Financing Executive MBA Financing Financial Aid Meet the Team Executive MBA Meet the Team Contact Us Getting Here Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program Ph.D. Program Home Admissions Ph.D. Program Admissions Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Ph.D. Program Areas of Study Accounting Ph.D. Program Accounting Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Behavioral Decision Making Ph.D. Program Behavioral Decision Making Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Decisions, Operations and Technology Management Ph.D. Program Decisions, Operations and Technology Management Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Finance Ph.D. Program Finance Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Global Economics and Management Ph.D. Program Global Economics and Management Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Management and Organizations Ph.D. Program Management and Organizations Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Marketing Ph.D. Program Marketing Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Strategy Ph.D. Program Strategy Faculty Meet the Students Courses & Seminars Current Job Market Candidates Placement Contact Download Ph.D. Brochure UCLA-NUS Executive MBA UCLA-NUS Executive MBA UCLA-NUS Executive MBA Home Visit UCLA-NUS Full Site Events For Companies Meet the Team Master of Financial Engineering Master of Financial Engineering Master of Financial Engineering Home Admissions Master of Financial Engineering Admissions Events Requirements International Applicants MFE Preparation Academics Master of Financial Engineering Academics Faculty Career Impact Master of Financial Engineering Career Impact Full-Time Placement Info Advisory Board Culture Financing Engage with Us Master of Financial Engineering Engage with Us Recruit An MFE Contact Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Business Analytics Home Admissions Master of Science in Business Analytics Admissions Class Profile Prerequisites FAQ Academics Career Impact Faculty Student Life Master of Science in Business Analytics Student Life Datathon For Companies Master of Science in Business Analytics For Companies Meet Our Students Recruit MSBAs Capstone: Applied Analytics Project Class of 2018 Class of 2019 Class of 2020 Meet our Team Master of Science in Business Analytics Meet our Team Contact Us Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Home Anderson Review Faculty & Research Anderson Review Subscribe About Articles Accounting Accounting Accounting Home Faculty Accounting Faculty Aboody Berges Boss Borman Caskey Freixes Friedman Guerin Hayn Hughes Kim Kim-Gina Klein Litt Lu Michaeli Miller Ravetech Saavedra Sussman Trueman Woo Meet the Students Research Seminars & Events Ph.D. Program Contact Behavioral Decision Making Behavioral Decision Making Behavioral Decision Making Home Faculty Behavioral Decision Making Faculty Benartzi Bendersky Benjamin Bodapati E Caruso H Caruso Chen Dai DeVoe Drolet Rossi Fox Gallus Goldstein Hershfield Larkin Lippman Mogilner Holmes Perez-Truglia Sarin Shaddy Shih Shu Sood Spiller Subrahmanyam Unzueta Whitson Wu Zhang Meet the Students Research Seminars & Events Ph.D. Program Contact Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Home Faculty Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Faculty Ahmadi Bikhchandani Blevins Bravo Corbett Caro Castro DeHoratius Erlenkotter Herman Foster Geoffrion Karmarkar Long Kramer Mamer McCardle Misic McCaney McDonough Morrison Pierskalla Rajaram Sarin Siddiq Tang Villasenor Meet The Ph.D. Students Research Courses Seminars & Events DOTM Supply Chain Blog Ph.D. Program Contact Finance Finance Finance Home Faculty Finance Faculty Andrei Bernardo Brennan Carlin Chernov Chowdhry Cockrum Eisfeldt Gabriel Garmaise Geske Gomez Greene Grinblatt Habibi Haddad Hartman-Glaser Herskovic Hsu Karlan Kahl Kraft Ledoit Lee Lochstoer Longstaff Muir Panageas Peleg Roll Santikian Schwartz Subrahmanyam Torous Wang Welch Wessels Meet the Students Research Courses Seminars & Events Ph.D. Program Contact Global Economics and Management Global Economics and Management Global Economics and Management Home Faculty Global Economics and Management Faculty Chen Chowdhry Diaz-Gimenez Dippel Edwards Giuliano Garmaise Leamer Nathanson Osborne Perez-Truglia Suominen Spich Tabbush Tricaud Voigtlnder Wacziarg Wasserman Wilson Welch Meet the Ph.D. Students Research Courses Seminars & Events Ph.D. Program University of California GEM-BPP Research Workshop Contact Management And Organizations Management And Organizations Management And Organizations Home Faculty Management And Organizations Faculty Bendersky E Caruso H Caruso Culbert Dai Delmas Erickson Firstenberg Forman Flamholtz Fox Goldstein Jacoby Kleingartner Lewin Lawrence McCann Mitchell Northrop Ouchi Reuben Shapiro Shih Ullmen Unzueta Walske Werber Whitson Wu DeVoe Meet the Ph.D. Students Anderson Behavioral Lab Research Courses Seminars & Events HARRT at UCLA Ph.D. Program Contact Marketing Marketing Marketing Home Faculty Marketing Faculty Alexandre Audenaert Bodapati Bucklin Cooper Drolet Esteves-Sorenson Farrell Hanssens Hershfield Hollenbeck Honka Hristakeva Mogilner Holmes Moorad Morrison Rossi Scott Seiler Shaddy Shu Sood Spiller Terech Zeithammer Zhang Meet the Students Research Courses Seminars Ph.D. Program Anderson Behavioral Lab Contact Strategy Strategy Strategy Home Faculty Strategy Faculty Alderton Chen Bikhchandani Darby Gallus Gandhi Geis Kao Larkin Lieberman Mamer Minor Lippman Poliquin Rumelt Sakakibara Santikian Schmitt Sorenson Yin Wurster Meet the Students Research Courses Seminars Ph.D. Program Workshops Contact Faculty Directory Faculty Expertise Guide Faculty Awards Open Positions Executive Education Executive Education Executive Education Home Open Enrollment Executive Education Open Enrollment Executive Program Corporate Governance Multidimensional Leaders' Institute Women's Leadership Institute Women in Governance Inclusive Leadership Program Strategic HR Program Leading High Performing Teams Customized Solutions Partner Programs Executive Education Partner Programs UCLA PGPX UCLA PGP Pro Management Acceleration Program Owners Management Program Meet Our Team Centers Centers Centers Home Center for Global Management Center for Global Management Center for Global Management Home Programs Center for Global Management Programs Global Degree Immersion & Specialization Center for Global Management Immersion & Specialization Specialization in Global Management Global Immersion Courses FEMBA and EMBA International Exchange Career and Personal Development Global Management Seminars for Visiting Students Faculty & Research Center for Global Management Faculty & Research Faculty and Doctoral Center for Global Management Faculty and Doctoral Faculty in the News Global Access Program (GAP) Applied Management Research (AMR) MBA Research Assistants Events Center for Global Management Events Conferences Center for Global Management Conferences Wilbur K. Woo Greater China Business Conference Overview Latin American Business Conference Other Global Conferences Academic and Research Conferences Global Management Speaker & Lecture Series Global Business & Policy Forums Robertson Lecture Series on Global Business Leadership Brown Bag Luncheons and Dinners for Eight External Collaborative Partnerships World Today Discussion Series About The CGM Video Gallery Center for Global Management Video Gallery Faculty Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Home For Students Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports For Students Academics Industry Network Undergraduate Summer Institute Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Undergraduate Summer Institute Howard University Initiative Real Madrid Sports Executive Experience High School Summer Discovery Events Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Events Pulse Conference Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Pulse Conference Entertainment Case Competition Game Day Sports Case Competition Up Next Conference INSIGHTS - Big Data Conference Alumni Research & Insights Corporate Partnership About Us Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports About Us Board of Directors Easton Technology Management Center Easton Technology Management Center Easton Technology Management Center Home For Students Easton Technology Management Center For Students Courses Specialization Fellows Tech Summer Institute Easton Events Easton Technology Management Center Easton Events Tech + Society Conference Innovate Conference Forecast (September 2020) Executive Speaker Series Innovation Challenge Easton Technology Management Center Innovation Challenge Sustainability Track Healthcare Track FAQ Easton Instructors Get Involved Research About Us Easton Technology Management Center About Us Board of Advisors Faculty Advisory Board Support the Center Fink Center for Finance Fink Center for Finance Fink Center for Finance Home For Students Fink Center for Finance For Students Fellowships Overview Career Impact Fellowships Overview Fink Center for Finance Student Fellowships Investment Banking Fellowship Kayne Investment Management Fellowship Brown Private Equity and Alternatives Fellowship Master in Financial Engineering Fellowship News and Events Fink Center for Finance News and Events Conference on Financial Markets Fink Investing Conference Private Equity Roundtable Fink Credit Pitch Competition Faculty & Research Our Leadership Fink Center for Finance Meet Our Board Meet Our Team Get Involved Support Us Subscribe Impact@Anderson Impact@Anderson Impact@Anderson Home For Students Impact@Anderson For Students Courses Specializations and Certificates Impact Investing Anderson Venture Impact Partners Social Impact Consulting Events Impact@Anderson Events Conversations Impact Week Support Us Open Positions About Us Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Home Events Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Events Past Events Seminars Gilbert Symposium Research Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Research Funded Research Past Research Fellows Student Programs Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics Student Programs Affiliated Student Organizations Case Competitions Ph.D. Students About Us Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics About Us Faculty Support Us UCLA Anderson Forecast UCLA Anderson Forecast UCLA Anderson Forecast Home About Us UCLA Anderson Forecast About Us Edward Leamer Jerry Nickelsburg David Shulman William Yu Leila Bengali Leo Feler Seth Katz Events UCLA Anderson Forecast Events December 2020 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast December 2020 Economic Outlook December 2020 Bios December Seminar 2020 Bios Special Webinar: The Future of Aerospace Technology and Industry San Francisco Economic Outlook for 2020 UCLA Anderson Forecast San Francisco Economic Outlook for 2020 SF 2020 Bios Orange County Economic Outlook for 2020 UCLA Anderson Forecast Orange County Economic Outlook for 2020 OC 2020 Bios September 2020 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast September 2020 Economic Outlook September 2020 Bios September Seminar 2020 Bios June 2020 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast June 2020 Economic Outlook June 2020 Bios March 2020 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast March 2020 Economic Outlook March 2020 Bios December 2019 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast December 2019 Economic Outlook December 2019 Bios September 2019 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast September 2019 Economic Outlook September 2019 Bios June 2019 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast June 2019 Economic Outlook June 2019 Bios Orange County Economic Outlook for 2019 UCLA Anderson Forecast Orange County Economic Outlook for 2019 OC 2019 Bios San Francisco Economic Outlook for 2019 UCLA Anderson Forecast San Francisco Economic Outlook for 2019 SF 2019 Bios March 2019 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast March 2019 Economic Outlook March 2019 Bios December 2018 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast December 2018 Economic Outlook December 2018 Bios September 2018 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast September 2018 Economic Outlook September 2018 Bios June 2018 Economic Outlook Orange County Economic Outlook 2018 UCLA Anderson Forecast Orange County Economic Outlook 2018 OC 2018 Bios San Francisco Economic Outlook for 2018 UCLA Anderson Forecast San Francisco Economic Outlook for 2018 SF 2018 Bios March 2018 Economic Outlook December 2017 Economic Outlook September 2017 Economic Outlook June 2017 Economic Outlook Orange County Economic Outlook 2017 March 2017 Economic Outlook December 2016 Economic Outlook September 2016 Economic Outlook June 2016 Economic Outlook Orange County Economic Outlook 2016 April 2016 Economic Outlook December 2015 Economic Outlook September 2015 Economic Outlook June 2015 Economic Outlook Orange County Economic Outlook 2015 March 2015 Economic Outlook UCLA Anderson Forecast March 2015 Economic Outlook California Ports in the Aftermath of the Agreement December 2014 Economic Outlook September 2014 Economic Outlook June 2014 Economic Outlook San Diego Economic Outlook Orange County Economic Outlook 2014 April 2014 Economic Outlook Research UCLA Anderson Forecast Research Forecast Reports Forecast Direct UCLA Anderson Forecast Forecast Direct October 2020 September 2020 US Employment Analysis UCLA Anderson Forecast US Employment Analysis Monthly US Employment Analysis - March 2020 Monthly US Employment Analysis - February 2020 Monthly US Employment Analysis - January 2020 Monthly US Employment Analysis - December 2019 Monthly US Employment Analysis - November 2019 Monthly US Employment Analysis - October 2019 Monthly US Employment Analysis - September 2019 Monthly US Employment Analysis - August 2019 2020 Recession UCLA Anderson Forecast 2020 Recession The Sum of All Fears The 2020 Recession in the Golden State Projects and Partnerships UCLA Anderson Forecast Projects and Partnerships Los Angeles City Employment City Human Capital Index Allen Matkins UCLA Anderson Forecast Allen Matkins Summer 2020 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Summer 2020 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Winter 2020 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Winter 2020 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Spring/Summer 2019 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Spring/Summer 2019 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Winter/Spring 2019 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Winter/Spring 2019 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Summer/Fall 2018 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Summer/Fall 2018 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Winter/Spring 2018 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Winter/Spring 2018 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Summer/Fall 2017 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Summer/Fall 2017 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Winter/Spring 2017 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Winter/Spring 2017 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Summer/Fall 2016 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Summer/Fall 2016 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Winter/Spring 2016 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Winter/Spring 2016 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Summer/Fall 2015 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Summer/Fall 2015 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Winter/Spring 2015 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Winter/Spring 2015 Survey Commercial Markets Developer Sentiment Video Summary Summer/Fall 2014 Survey UCLA Anderson Forecast Summer/Fall 2014 Survey Video Summary Winter/Spring 2014 Survey Cathay Bank UCLA Anderson Forecast Cathay Bank September 2020 Update - U.S.-China Economic Report July 2020 Update - U.S.-China Economic Report 2020 Annual U.S.-China Special Report: Hong Kong 2020 Annual U.S.-China Economic Report 2019 Q3 Update - U.S.-China Economic Report 2019 Q2 Update - U.S.-China Economic Report 2019 Q1 Update - U.S.-China Economic Report 2019 Annual Economic Report 2018 Q3 Update - U.S.-China Economic Report 2018 Annual Economic Report Membership UCLA Anderson Forecast Membership Login Profile Become a Member Sponsorship Speaking Engagements Join Email List Contact Us Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation Home For Students Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation For Students Academics Career Impact Fellowships Undergraduate Minor in Entrepreneurship Student Investment Fund For Professionals Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation For Professionals Health Care Executive Program Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans UCLA Head Start Management Fellows Program Steinbeck Family Business Seminar Management Development for Entrepreneurs UCLA Health Care Institute NSF Innovation Corps Site Faculty and Research Alumni Anderson Venture Accelerator Anderson Venture Accelerator Anderson Venture Accelerator Home Our Companies Our Programs Anderson Venture Accelerator Our Programs Three Month Activate Program Six Month Accelerate Program Partners Mentors & Advisors News and Events Anderson Venture Accelerator News and Events Fall Showcase 2020 Meet Our Team Fall Showcase Highlights 2019 Spring Showcase Highlights 2019 Winter Showcase Highlights 2018 Tomorrow's Technologies, with BCGDV and Originate Give Now Support Us Hire an Anderson Intern About Us UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Home Events UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Events Fannie Mae-UCLA Ziman Symposium About Us UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate About Us Meet Our Staff Board Leadership Faculty Research UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Research UCLA Gilbert Program in Real Estate, Finance and Urban Economics UCLA Economic Letter UCLA Affordable Housing Policy Brief Working Papers Conference on Housing, Financial Markets & Monetary Policy Data UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Data Mortgage Default Risk Index (MDRI) CRSP/Ziman REIT Data Series Student Development UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Student Development Corporate Concierge Recruiting Real Estate Challenges Awards & Fellowships UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Awards & Fellowships Peter Bren Fellows in Entrepreneurial Real Estate Howard and Irene Levine Fellows Tracy Family UCLA Ziman Center Fellowship Resources Courses Steven C. Gordon Real Estate Student Endowment Get Involved UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Get Involved Howard and Irene Levine Program in Housing and Social Responsibility Howard and Irene Levine Affordable Housing Development Program Howard J. Levine Distinguished Lecture on Business Ethics & Social Responsibility UCLA Distinguished Speaker Series in Affordable Housing Housing as Health Care Initiative Alumni (UCLA REAG) In The News Ziman Campaign Programs & Outreach Programs & Outreach Programs & Outreach Home Accounting Minor Program Accounting Minor Program Accounting Minor Program Home Accounting Minor Admissions Requirements Enrolling in Classes Courses Accounting Minor Program Courses Course Syllabus CPA Info Useful Links Graduating Seniors Contact Us Advanced Technology Management Institute Advanced Technology Management Institute Advanced Technology Management Institute Home Faculty Applied Management Research Program Applied Management Research Program Applied Management Research Program Home Requirements & Schedule Benefits To Companies Application Student Experience Faculty Advisors Contact Us FAQ Global Access Program Global Access Program Global Access Program Home Benefits Requirements Schedule Global Partner Network Meet the Advisors Meet the Students Past GAP Companies Application Contact Executive Portal Executive Portal Executive Portal Home Key Dates & Schedules Event Registration Hotels and Directions Visa Information Contact Us Explore Los Angeles Post-GAP Consulting Providers HealthCare@Anderson Programs & Outreach HealthCare@Anderson For Students Research Projects Centers Talks Health Care and Behavioral Economics Women and Healthcare RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Health Care Operations HEALTH CARE PRICING AND FINANCING Other Information Systems Research Program Information Systems Research Program Information Systems Research Program Home Team Research Connections Visitors IS History Information Systems Research Program IS History Grads WISRD Sponsors Contact Us Leaders in Sustainability Certificate Program Riordan Programs Riordan Programs Riordan Programs Home Riordan Scholars Program Riordan Programs Riordan Scholars Program Saturday Business Institute FAQ Riordan MBA Fellows Riordan Programs Riordan MBA Fellows FAQ Riordan College To Career Riordan Programs Riordan College To Career FAQ Our Purpose Get Involved Riordan Programs Get Involved Donations Donor Honor Roll Volunteer Opportunities Spark Campaign Who We Are Riordan Programs Who We Are Contact Us Advisory Board Riordan Gala 2020 Riordan Podcast Venture Accelerator at UCLA Anderson News & Events News & Events News & Events Home News News & Events News News Archive Virtual Events Archive Signature Events Signature Events Overview Gerald Loeb Awards Gerald Loeb Awards Gerald Loeb Awards Home 2020 Finalist, Career Honorees & Virtual Event Announcement Banquet and Ceremony Submit Entry Our Legacy About Gerald Loeb Awards About Mission Biography of Gerald Loeb Final Judging Panel FAQ Competition Categories Winners Gerald Loeb Awards Winners Audio Beat Reporting Breaking News Commentary Explanatory Feature Local International Investigative Personal Service Video Visual Storytelling Historical Winners Finalists Career Achievement Categories Eligibility & Rules Gerald Loeb Awards Eligibility & Rules FAQ Administration of Awards Final Judges News Contact Us Embracing Diversity Week Commencement Commencement Commencement Home MBA, EMBA, FEMBA, Ph.D. Commencement Commencement MBA, EMBA, FEMBA, Ph.D. Commencement FAQ Students FAQ Guests Commencement FAQ Guests links-general Commencement Speaker UCLA-NUS Commencement MFE Commencement Commencement MFE Commencement Parking & Directions MSBA Commencement Commencement MSBA Commencement Commencement Archive 2018 Parking & Directions Hotel Information Video Archives John Wooden Global Leadership Awards John Wooden Global Leadership Awards Home Honorees Fellows Fellowship Application John Wooden Anderson Speaker Series Dean's Distinguished Speaker Series Velocity Women's Summit Signature Events Velocity Women's Summit Velocity Women's Summit Speakers Impact Week 'Palooza Anderson Student Kickoff Podcasts News & Events Podcasts Why MBA How The World Works Accelerate 1Anderson For the Media Press Releases Alumni Alumni Alumni Home Alumni Directory Chapters & Groups Reunions Alumni Reunions Pricing Reunions Facebook Groups Events Alumni Events Leading in a Technology Driven World 2021 Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2020 Alumni Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2020 highlight-www-video Friday Faculty Chats Past Events Alumni Past Events Alumni Weekend 2019 Alumni Alumni Weekend 2019 Conference Saturday Sessions Reunions Pricing Alumni Weekend 2018 Alumni Alumni Weekend 2018 Conference Alumni Conference Video Gallery Saturday Sessions Reunions Pricing Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2018 Worldwide Welcome Weeks 2017 Career Re-LAUNCH Alumni Overview Program Overview Program Application Alumni Program Application crp-app-intro Leading in a Technology Driven World UCLA Campus Career Services Alumni Overview Webinars Career Resources Stay Connected Alumni Overview Email Lists Alumni Overview E-mail List Usage Guidelines Class Notes News@Anderson Facebook LinkedIn Get Involved Alumni Awards New Alumni Meet Our Team Alumni Overview Board of Directors Alumni Overview Letter from the President Give Now Help Give Directory Portal Library UCLA Feedback Terms of Use The Regents of the University of California APPLY | GIVE About Our Character Our Strategic Plan Our Dean Our Leadership Our History Office of Development Clubs & Associations Commencement Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information & Technology For Companies Consulting Teams Degrees Full-Time MBA Fully Employed MBA Executive MBA Ph.D. Program UCLA-NUS Executive MBA Master of Financial Engineering Master of Science in Business Analytics Faculty & Research Anderson Review Accounting Behavioral Decision Making Decisions, Operations & Technology Management Finance Global Economics and Management Management And Organizations Marketing Strategy Faculty Directory Faculty Expertise Guide Faculty Awards Open Positions Executive Education Open Enrollment Customized Solutions Partner Programs Meet Our Team Centers Center for Global Management Center for Management of Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports Easton Technology Management Center Fink Center for Finance Impact@Anderson Morrison Center for Marketing and Data Analytics UCLA Anderson Forecast Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Programs & Outreach Accounting Minor Program Advanced Technology Management Institute Applied Management Research Program Global Access Program HealthCare@Anderson Information Systems Research Program Leaders in Sustainability Certificate Program Riordan Programs Venture Accelerator at UCLA Anderson News & Events News Signature Events Podcasts 1Anderson For the Media Press Releases Alumni Alumni Directory Chapters & Groups Reunions Events Career Services Stay Connected Alumni Awards New Alumni Meet Our Team Give Now Help Applied Management Research Program Requirements & Schedule Benefits To Companies Application Student Experience Faculty Advisors Contact Us FAQ Faculty Advisors Faculty Advisors Our experienced faculty advisors support our students throughout the six-month AMR project. Each team is assigned a faculty advisor who works closely with the team to monitor progress, review documents and presentations, and encourage academic and professional growth. The faculty advisor does not directly manage the interface with companies - that is the purview of the student team. Many of our advisors have directed and provided consulting services to leading companies all over the world in addition to their academic accomplishments, and so both our students and our partner organizations benefit from their wealth of expertise. They are chosen both for their skills as generalists and for their specialties. Faculty Advisors Derek Alderton Adjunct Lecturer Read Bio Derek Alderton Adjunct Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Entertainment, Consulting Derek Alderton founded Alderton Business Services in 2003, after 10 years with McKinsey & Company, to provide more personal service to entrepreneurial companies. He has led studies in aerospace, financial services, health care, property development, technology and all areas of media and entertainment. He has worked in 22 countries, leading teams of over 100 people on transactions as large as $12 billion. He is one of the leading experts on the business impact of technology on traditional media. Alderton teaches part time at UCLA Anderson, where he designed and continues to teach Entertainment Strategy. He has spoken at numerous conferences and has been published multiple times. He is a chartered accountant (CPA equivalent). Email: derek.alderton@anderson.ucla.edu Education MBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management Law and Economics, University of Sydney Diploma in Finance, Securities Institute of Australia Bill Cockrum Adjunct Professor of Finance Read Bio Bill Cockrum Adjunct Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Banking, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Leadership, Venture Capital Bill Cockrum has won numerous teaching awards, including recognition as the top entrepreneurial professor in the nation in a survey conducted by Business Week in 1996. He has become a legend for a case-study entrepreneurial finance class he has taught for more than 30 years, teaching students the ins and outs of acquiring and sustaining the financing for organizations. Prior to joining the UCLA faculty, Cockrum spent 25 years in financial services, initially as a marketer and last as CFO/CAO and one of the top senior officers at Becker Paribas Inc. a 3,000-employee investment banking firm. When the company was sold to Merrill Lynch in 1984, Cockrum began his second career as a consultant to chief executive officers. He serves as a consultant in a variety of industries on issues such as organization structure, strategy, marketing, finance and administration. Shortly after starting consulting, Cockrum in 1985 joined UCLA Anderson and in 1988 became a full-time professor, teaching students the business and finance skills needed to succeed as entrepreneurs. He has taught at UCLA Anderson for more than 30 years. He currently teaches courses on entrepreneurial finance, leadership and business ethics, real-world challenges leaders face and investment management. To date, more than 7,000 students have passed through his classroom. He also is a member of the school's Board of Visitors, the Anderson Alumni Board, the advisory board of the Price Center and the advisory board of the Fink Center, as well as a former member of the UCLA Foundation investment committee and a governor of the foundation. Cockrum is also a member of the advisory board of the Cranfield School of Management in Cranfield, England, as well as a visiting professor and a member of the advisory board of the Betteny Centre for Entrepreneurship at Cranfield University. He was also a visiting professor at Warwick Business School in Coventry, England, from 2004 to 2013, where he won teaching awards in each year from 2005 to 2012. Currently, Cockrum is a professor and member of the business schools advisory board at Trinity College Dublin, where he was awarded the top teaching award by students in 2016. Phone: (310) 825-2985 Email: bill.cockrum@anderson.ucla.edu Education MBA, Harvard University Constana Esteves-Sorenson Adjunct Assistant Professor of Marketing Read Bio Constana Esteves-Sorenson Adjunct Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Banking, Entrepreneurship, Finance, Leadership, Venture Capital Constana Esteves-Sorenson joined the UCLA Anderson School of Management in 2020 from the Yale School of Management, where she was a senior lecturer. Esteves-Sorenson studies behavioral, labor and personnel economics, and her training is in economics and econometrics. Her current research explores how hiring, compensation and retention policies affect employee and firm performance. Her work has been published in peer-reviewed journals such as The Review of Economics and Statistics, Management Science and The Economic Journal, and has garnered media attention from Financial Times and The Economist. Prior to academia, she worked for Procter & Gamble and the Boston Consulting Group. Email: constanca.esteves-sorenson@anderson.ucla.edu Education Ph.D., Business and Public Policy, 2009, UC Berkeley Haas School of Business M.A.; Economics, Econometrics and Economic Theory; 2006; UC Berkeley MBA, 1999, Stanford Graduate School of Business B.A., Finance, 1994, Institute of Managerial Sciences, Lisbon University, Portugal Brian Farrell Lecturer Read Bio Brian Farrell Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Digital Entertainment, Gaming Since 2014, Brian Farrell has taught Managing Disruptive Technologies and Business Models and Gaming: The State of Play. He also co-teaches Ethics and Leadership and Issues Leaders Face with Bill Cockrum and serves as an advisor to the Applied Management Research program. For over 17 years, Farrell led THQ Inc., a global digital entertainment company and developer and publisher of interactive entertainment experiences, as its chairman and CEO. Under Farrells leadership, THQ grew its revenue from $19 million in 1994 to over $1 billion by 2008, and expanded its global footprint to sell and market its games in more than 75 countries. He also drove the expansion of THQs internal product development capabilities to over 16 studios, which resulted in the development of hit game brands Saints Row, Company of Heroes, Darksiders, Homefront and the popular MX franchise. During Farrells tenure, THQ managed the interactive entertainment brands for such well-known franchises as Disney/Pixar, World Wrestling Entertainment, the Ultimate Fighting Championship and Nickelodeon. He also spearheaded THQs digital strategies, including mobile and online games, and has been a strong proponent of emerging cloud gaming technologies. In addition, Farrell has served as chairman of the Entertainment Software Association, the industrys trade association. He has also served as co-chairman of the industrys charitable foundation, which has raised over $10 million for childrens charities. He has served as chairman of the Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and is a member of the schools Board of Visitors. Farrell joined THQ in April 1991 as vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer, and was appointed to his current position in January 1995. Prior to joining THQ, he was vice president and chief financial officer of Hotel Investors Trust. Previously, he was employed by Deloitte & Touche LLP. Farrell holds a bachelors degree from Stanford University and an MBA from the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Email: bfarrell788@gmail.com EducationMBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management Michael Montgomery Lecturer Read Bio Michael Montgomery Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Mergers, Strategy, Advising, Investment Banking, Media and Technology, Corporate Development Michael J. Montgomery is an advisor and investor in early-stage companies, an active board member and a lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Montgomery was the co-founder and president of Montgomery & Co. LLC, a boutique investment bank focused on media and technology, from 2000 through 2013. It specialized in mergers and acquisitions and equity financings for private and public companies, and became known for its focus on the intersection of media and technology. Montgomery & Co. merged its operations into Signal Hill in 2013. Prior to Montgomery & Co., Montgomery served as president and CEO of Sega GameWorks LLC, a joint venture between Sega, Universal Studios and DreamWorks. It owned and operated family entertainment centers across the United States. Prior to joining Sega GameWorks, Montgomery was a partner and senior executive of DreamWorks SKG from 1995 to 1996. He was the lead executive for the companys $900-million equity raise in 1995. He also led its real estate efforts to secure land to build its studio in Glendale and its attempted studio at Playa Vista. Montgomery joined DreamWorks after a nine-year career at The Walt Disney Company. As assistant treasurer and then vice president and treasurer, he was responsible for numerous innovative financing arrangements conceived and executed for Disney. This includes the $720-million non-recourse advance for the royalties of Tokyo Disneyland, the first large royalty financing conceived for intellectual property. He was also instrumental in Silver Screen 2, 3 and 4, and the $600-million Touchwood film financing. He also proposed and then played a key role in the execution of the initial public offering of Euro Disney in 1989. Upon returning from Paris, he conceived of the first bond with a return indexed to an unrelated security or index. The $927-million zero coupon bond indexed into Euro Disneys stock value pioneered, via the SEC and Wall Street, the use of derivative-like structures imbedded in bonds. In 1993, he moved to Paris to serve as directeur general and CFO of Euro Disney, where he played an important role in a difficult financial and operational restructuring. Before joining Disney, Montgomery worked at ARCO in its treasury organization. From 1980 to 1984, he also served as CFO and later president of Arco Solar Europe, a subsidiary of Arco Solar, in Milan, Italy, and later in London. At that time, Arco Solar was the largest solar photovoltaic company in the world. Montgomery has been a director of Synacor Inc. since December 2011. He was a director of DreamWorks Animation SKG from July 2006 thorough to its sale in August 2016. He chairs the audit committee for Synacor and had the same role at DreamWorks. He is also on the boards of Seriously, Air Bud Entertainment, Open Methods and M3Bio, all private companies. Montgomery received an MBA from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College (1977), where he earned a B.A., magna cum laude (1976), as a Rufus Choate Scholar. Phone: (310) 463-1389 Email: michael.montgomery@anderson.ucla.edu EducationMBA, Dartmouth College, Tuck School of Business B.A., Economics, Dartmouth College Paul Park Lecturer Read Bio Paul Park Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Business Law, Nonprofit Law and Management, Social Entrepreneurship Paul S. Park is a lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he serves as a faculty advisor for the Applied Management Research program, the Global Access Program and the Strategic Management Research program. Parks field research projects have focused on international and social impact clients with a variety of business objectives, including venture initiation, market entry, marketing strategy and supply chain management. Park also a lecturer at the UCLA International Institute, where he teaches courses on social entrepreneurship and international business. Park is a principal of Bethel Counsel PC and provides corporate law and general counsel services to startup, real estate and social enterprise clients. His practice areas include venture initiation, corporate compliance and contract negotiation. Current and past clients have worked in the following industries: technology, health care, real estate development, retail, media, education and social services. Park previously worked with the Cesar Chavez Foundation, a California 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, in a variety of executive capacities, including executive director, general counsel and chief operating officer. He began his career at the global law firm of O'Melveny & Myers LLP, working on secured lending transactions, venture capital financings and mergers and acquisitions. Park is admitted to practice in the State of California, and holds a JD from the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law, where he served as an editor for the UCLA Law Review. He also received an MBA from the Anderson School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, where he was awarded a Global Access Program Fellowship. Paul earned an AB with distinction in History from Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. Park was previously appointed by Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa to serve as the president of the City of Los Angeles Board of Neighborhood Commissioners. He is also a past president and board member of the Korean American Bar Association of Southern California. He is an active member of the State Bar of California as well as the Los Angeles County Bar Association, and he serves on the board of a number of nonprofit organizations. Phone: (310) 825-8388 Email: paul.park@anderson.ucla.edu Education MBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management J.D., UCLA A.B., Cornell University Kumar Rajaram Professor of Decisions, Operations and Technology Management; William E. Leonhard Chair in Management Read Bio Kumar Rajaram Professor of Decisions, Operations and Technology Management; William E. Leonhard Chair in Management; UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Operations Management in the Process Industry, Process Improvement in Health Care, Process Improvement in Nonprofits, Retail Operations Management, Theme Park Operations, Operations Management in the Motion Picture Industry Kumar Rajaram is professor of decisions, operations and technology management and the William E. Leonhard Chair in Management at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Rajarams current research interests include improving operations in the health care industry, nonprofit sector and process manufacturing sector, including food processing, pharmaceuticals and the petrochemical industry. He has focused on developing analytical models of complicated systems, with a strong emphasis on practical implementation. Rajarams work has been published in leading research journals such as Operations Research, Management Science, Manufacturing and Service Operations Management, Marketing Science and Production and Operations Management. He has been awarded the Eric and E Juline Faculty Excellence in Research Award at UCLA Anderson. Rajaram developed a new control paradigm called robust process control to increase the productivity of large-scale industrial processes. By focusing on the design and control of these processes in operational environments, this technique has resulted in four-fold increases in productivity in several types of industrial processes. These methods have been implemented at several process companies worldwide. For this work, he has been recognized by the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) as a Franz Edelman Laureate for outstanding applications of operations research and management science techniques to practice. He has also developed techniques to better balance supply with demand for products with short life cycles and highly unpredictable demand. This work has been applied at several large fashion retailers in Europe and North America, and has resulted in substantial improvements to profitability at these sites. He has also worked in developing analytical models to improve planning for HIV/AIDS screening, testing and care at the Veterans Administration. In addition, he has worked at improving patient flows at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and has developed models to improve staff and operating room assignments for surgeries at this hospital. Phone: (310) 825-4154 Email: kumar.rajaram@anderson.ucla.edu Education Ph.D., Operations Management, 1998, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania M.A., Managerial Science and Applied Economics, 1997, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania M.S., Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, 1993, University of Massachusetts at Amherst M.Sc., Mathematics, with Honors, 1991, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India B.E., Electrical and Electronics Engineering, with Honors, 1991, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India Bruce Rothman Co-Managing Member of KOAR Institutional Advisors LLC and Founding Principal of Storage Etc. LLC Read Bio Bruce Rothman Co-Managing Member of KOAR Institutional Advisors LLC and Founding Principal of Storage Etc. LLC AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Real Estate Finance, Real Estate Development, Real Estate Investment Bruce H. Rothman is the co-managing member of KOAR Institutional Advisors LLC and founding principal of Storage Etc. LLC, and has been involved in the real estate industry for over 30 years. Prior to entering the real estate industry, Rothman practiced corporate securities and real estate law in Los Angeles. He has been involved in the acquisition or development of approximately $1.5 billion of income-producing real estate in the United States, including office, retail, residential, hotel self-storage and mixed-use. Rothman, a Los Angeles native, received a bachelor's degree in psychology from UCLA (1976) and a J.D. from the Gould School of Law at the University of Southern California (1982). He is a member of the California State Bar, is admitted to practice law in all California courts and is a licensed real estate broker in California. Phone: (323) 966-4989 #1 Email: bhr@koarllc.com Education B.A., UCLA J.D., University of Southern California Gould School of Law Bill Seeger UCLA Anderson School of Management Read Bio Bill Seeger UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Finance, Automotive, Aerospace, Energy, Electronics Bill Seeger developed his global financial experience at TRW, where he spent 30 years in the automotive, aerospace, energy and electronics sectors. Seeger held positions as division CFO, corporate treasurer, VP finance automotive, VP finance aerospace and VP planning and analysis. During the past 11 years at GKN plc, a U.K. automotive and aerospace company, he was the CFO of the aerospace division, president and CEO of propulsion systems and CFO, as well as a member of the companys board. He lived in the U.K. for seven years. Seeger currently is on the board of directors of Smiths Group as well as on the board of Spectris plc, both U.K. engineering and industrial companies. He has been a visiting professor at UCLA Anderson since January 2015. Seeger and his family live in Newport Beach, Calif. Phone: (440) 220-2085 Email: bill.seeger@gmail.com EducationMBA, UCLA Anderson School of Management B.A., Economics, UCLA Stephen Spiller Associate Professor of Marketing and Behavioral Decision Making Read Bio Stephen Spiller Associate Professor of Marketing and Behavioral Decision Making, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Behavioral Decision Theory, Consumer Behavior, Consumer Financial Decision Making, Intertemporal Choice, Planning, Psychology of Money Stephen Spiller is an associate professor of marketing and behavioral decision making at the UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he has been on the faculty since 2011. Millers research examines the psychology of fundamental economic concepts. This includes how and when people consider their opportunity costs, how they plan for the future, how they reason about product differentiation and how they think about stocks versus flows. He also works to translate and disseminate best practices in data analysis for behavioral researchers. His work has been published in leading journals, including Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing Research, Management Science, Psychological Science and Journal of Consumer Psychology. He was named a 2017 MSI Young Scholar and was a finalist for the Journal of Marketing Researchs William F. ODell Award in 2018. Miller received his Ph.D. in marketing from Duke University and his B.A. in psychology and economics from the University of Virginia. Phone: (310) 206-4879 Email: stephen.spiller@anderson.ucla.edu EducationB.A., Psychology and Economics, University of Virginia Ph.D., Marketing, Duke University Andres Terech Adjunct Associate Professor of Marketing Read Bio Andres Terech Adjunct Associate Professor of Marketing, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Marketing Research, Marketing Strategy, Retailing, Salesforce Management, Distribution Channels Andres Terech is an adjunct associate professor of marketing at UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he has been voted teacher of the year by both Andersons full-time and executive MBA students. Before joining UCLA, Terech was a member of the faculty at IAE Business School, Universidad Austral in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Terech teaches courses in marketing strategy, salesforce management, distribution strategy, retail management, price policies and marketing management. He has also taught in numerous marketing executives programs, both in the U.S. and at business schools in Spain, Mexico, Chile, Peru and Ecuador. In addition to teaching marketing courses, he coaches teams in the Applied Management Research program and teaches global immersion courses in Latin America countries. Terechs research interests include modeling consumer choice behavior and competitive market structure, franchising, retailing and pricing strategy. His work has been published in scholarly journals and specialized business publications such as Marketing Letters, Case Research Journal and Harvard Business Review. Terechs consulting experience covers several marketing challenges, such as new product launches, marketing plans and growth strategies; promotion and communication programs; and feasibility analysis. He has advised clients in a variety of industries, including retailing, agribusiness, financial services, textile and automobile. He is on the advisory board of startup companies. Before becoming an academic, he worked for Accenture. Terech received his Ph.D. in marketing from the UCLA Anderson School of Management, an MBA from Universidad Austral and a BA in business administration from Universidad de Buenos Aires. Phone: (310) 206-4170 Email: andres.terech@anderson.ucla.edu Background/Education B.A., Business Administration, Universidad de Buenos Aires MBA, Universidad Austral Ph.D., Marketing, UCLA Anderson School of Management John Ullmen Lecturer of Management and Organizations Read Bio Constana Esteves-Sorenson Adjunct Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Executive Coaching, Leadership Development, Network Management John Ullmen, Ph.D., is a continuing lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management. He has taught for 15 years across the MBA, FEMBA, EMBA and executive education programs. Ullmen received the Teaching Excellence Award from the executive MBAs, which recognizes the faculty member who has had the most positive impact on you, contributing to your knowledge, business acumen and world view. Several global executive search firms, along with private equity firms and other organizations, ask Ullmen to coach senior leaders in their current roles or as they transition into next-level roles. Over the past two decades, Ullmen has conducted hundreds of in-depth executive coaching engagements with leaders across a wide range of Fortune 500 firms and industry leaders in technology, media, entertainment, consumer products, health care, biotech, finance, banking, real estate, professional services, construction, defense and government. Ullmens book, Real Influence: Persuade Without Pushing and Gain Without Giving In, was selected as one of the Top 30 Books in Business of the year by the leading business executive summary firm, and is in print around the world in many languages. Ullmens writing also has been featured in Harvard Business Review, on MSNBC, in the Los Angeles Times and at other major media outlets. Ullmens video programs on LinkedIn Learning have millions of paid views, have been selected for featured lists and have been translated into multiple languages. Programs include Executive Leadership, Developing Executive Presence, Influencing Others, Mindfulness, Communication Foundations, Connecting with Executives, Executive Coaching and Working with an Executive Coach. Ullmen is a frequent speaker on leadership, executive presence and influence. Ullmen began his career as an officer in the U.S. Air Force, where he served as a lead systems engineer for a global Joint Chiefs of Staff intelligence program. Phone: (310) 266-1559 Email: john.ullmen@anderson.ucla.edu Education Ph.D., Organizational Behavior, UCLA Anderson School of Management MPP, Harvard University B.S., Engineering Mechanics, U.S. Air Force Academy Jennifer Walske Adjunct Assistant Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management; Social Impact Fellow, Berkeley-Haas Read Bio Jennifer Walske Adjunct Assistant Professor, UCLA Anderson School of Management; Social Impact Fellow, Berkeley-Haas AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Social Startups, Social Venture Capital Firms, Investment Banking, Marketing, Entrepreneurship Dr. Jennifer Walske is an adjunct assistant professor at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and has served as the faculty director of Impact@Anderson. As a writer, researcher and investor, Dr. Walske sits on numerous boards of for-profit and nonprofit companies. Her research centers on the funding and scaling of startups, with an emphasis on social startups and social venture capital firms. She has received numerous research and teaching awards, including the best paper award from NYU Sterns Social Entrepreneurship Conference and the Cheit Award for Teaching Excellence at UC Berkeleys Haas School of Business. Prior to her academic career, Dr. Walske was an institutional investment banking securities analyst and a regular commentator on both CNN and CNBC. Prior to investment banking, she held product marketing roles at Synopsys and Intergraph. She earned a doctorate in strategy and entrepreneurship from Boston University, an MBA from Santa Clara University and a .B.A in communication studies from UC Santa Barbara. Phone: (310) 825-3544 Email: jwalske@myriadllc.com Education Ph.D., Strategy and Entrepreneurship, Boston University MBA, Santa Clara University B.A., Communication Studies, UC Santa Barbara William Yu Economist, Anderson Forecast Read Bio William Yu Economist, Anderson Forecast, UCLA Anderson School of Management Forecast AREAS OF EXPERTISE: Economics, Forecasting, Data Analytics, U.S.China Economies, Housing Markets, Human Capital William Yu joined the UCLA Anderson Forecast in 2011 as an economist. At Forecast, Yu focuses on economic modeling, forecasting and the Los Angeles economy. He also conducts research on and forecasts for Chinas economy and its relationship with the U.S. economy. His research interests include a wide range of economic and financial issues, such as time series econometrics, data analytics, housing markets, human capital and innovation. Yu teaches business forecasting, predictive analytics and data science courses at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and UCLA Extension. In 2019, he received the distinguished instructor award for digital technology from UCLA Extension. He also serves as a faculty advisor for the Applied Management Research program at UCLA Anderson. Yu has published over a dozen research articles in Journal of Forecasting, International Journal of Forecasting, Journal of International Money and Finance and others. He also wrote op-ed articles in the Los Angeles Times and other newspapers. He developed the City Human Capital Index and the Los Angeles City Employment Estimate, and he wrote the quarterly U.S.China economic report. He has been cited in the local, national and overseas media frequently, including the Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, New York Times, Washington Post, Time, Bloomberg, CBS Money Watch, Al Jazeera, U-T San Diego, Los Angeles Daily News, Los Angeles Daily Breeze, Straits Times, NBC, ABC, CNBC, CNN and NPR, as well as various Chinese and Korean media. He was invited as a speaker for various events, including the annual Wilbur K. Woo Greater China Business Conference, Cathay Bank economic outlook luncheons and National Association for Business Economics conferences. Yu received his bachelors degree in finance from National Taiwan University in 1995 and was an analyst in Fubon Financial Holding in Taipei from 1997 to 2000. In 2006, he received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of Washington, where he was also an economics instructor and won two distinguished teaching awards. In 2006, he worked for the Frank Russell Investment Group for Treasury and corporate yields modeling and forecasting. From 2006 to 2011, he served as an assistant and an associate professor of economics at Winona State University, where he taught courses including forecasting methods, managerial economics, international economics, and macroeconomics. Phone: (310) 825-7805 Email: william.yu@anderson.ucla.edu EducationPh.D., Economics, University of Washington B.S., Finance, National Taiwan University I Want To... ; Download Brochure View FAQ Begin My Application Benefits to Companies Requirements & Schedule Apply Now Giving Computing Services Questions? For Visitors Site Index Maps & Directions Master Calendar Facility Use For Companies Recruit a Student Post a Job Consulting Teams For GAP Companies For the News Media Press Releases UCLA Anderson Forecast Anderson in the News Faculty Directory Faculty Expertise Guide For The Media Give Directory Portal Library UCLA Feedback Terms of Use The Regents of the University of California
