Global Access Program (GAP) | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content Apply For Companies Give Global Access Program (GAP) Global Access Program The Global Access Program (GAP)is asix-month mandatory field studyand the capstone experience for the FEMBA program. It is a real-world consulting experience that challenges future MBAs to prove their ability to execute and bring structure to a company's international market expansion. All GAP projects carry a technology focus. Non-technology companies and not-for-profit organizations qualify based on how they plan to leverage technology for strategic communication or to implement their programs. UCLA Anderson hosts an annual GAP company launch each July that brings together final-year FEMBA students with company executives for consecutive days to establish project objectives. The research travel component of GAP starts in August and ends in November, with the average five-person team conducting a minimum of 125 in-person interviews with key stakeholders. Each team must write an investment-quality business plan, backed by a tremendous amount of primary and secondary research, to present to industry experts and investors at the end of the program in December. Company Information GAP provides organizations around the world with an opportunity to engage a team of FEMBA students. Student Information Students learn the elements of successful business plans by studying in this six-month course that includes class lectures and case studies on business plan development, high-technology management and international entrepreneurship. Administration Bob Foster, Director, Adjunct Professor Fredrik Leuhusen, Executive Director Learn More The Global Access Program was founded in 1998 and is now in its 22nd year. GAP has played a role in giving more than 4,050 UCLA Anderson part-time students a unique, real-world international learning experience. The student teams have assisted over 820 companies from 26 countries in increasing their international success and generating over $1 billion in direct investment. In July 2019, UCLA Anderson hosted its annual Global Access Program company launch. The weekend brought together 209 final-year FEMBA students with executives from 40 companies based in countries that include Australia, Chile, Finland, Lithuania, New Zealand, Sri Lanka, the U.K. and Sweden. Case Studies Advocating for Greater Investment and Growth of After-School Programming in South Africa (Boys & Girls Clubs of South Africa and The Learning Trust, SOUTH AFRICA) 2017 The Learning Trust (TLT), a South African NGO that provides grant-making and capacity support to organizations to help strengthen local educational interventions. Learn More Evaluating Expansion of Operations into the United States to Serve Water Management Needs (Taggle Systems, Australia) 2016 Taggle Systems Inc. is a radio company based in Australia that provides low-power, wide-area network systems as a low-cost solution to automate water usage data collection in the utility industry. Learn More Finding a Sustainable Business Model for Screening and Treating Non-Communicable Diseases in South Africa (Human Sciences Research Council, SOUTH AFRICA) 2015 The Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) is a not-for-profit research organization that conducts large-scale social projects that contribute to the developmental goals of South Africa and the African continent. Learn More Identifying Market Entry Points for a Cutting Edge, New Zealand-Based Startup 2013 The Global Access Program has traditionally focused on supporting small-to-medium sized technology firms. Each year, a few pre-revenue companies are accepted into the experience in an effort to accelerate their growth. Learn More Supporting Rapid U.S. and Global Expansion for Estonian-Based MobileNOW! 2013 In GAPs second year of working with companies from Estonia, the team of FEMBA students, Naydia Chantarasompoth, Jennifer Chou, Connie Chu, Dinesh Shadrach and Ji Hoon Yoon, made a real and immediate impact on their client MobileNOW! Learn More Evaluating Expansion of Kings Hawaiian Products into the Brazilian Market 2013 For over 60 years, Kings Hawaiian has successfully introduced Hawaiian bread to the United States. The company was evaluating international expansion and its goal for the GAP team was to develop key components of a plan to enter the Brazilian market with their line of Hawaiian products. Learn More MEET OUR ADVISORY BOARD ENGAGE WITH THE CENTER SUPPORT THE CENTER Overview For Visitors campus tour maps & directions master calendar facility use For Companies recruit a student post a job consulting teams for GAP companies For the News Media media relations ucla anderson forecast anderson in the news faculty directory faculty expertise directory site index portal library UCLA feedback UC Regents
