Jianhui Zhong, Ph.D. - University of Rochester Medical Center Skip to main content Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates: Visitation Policies | How We're Keeping You Safe | Latest COVID Information Coronavirus (COVID-19): Visitor Restrictions, Resources, and Updates View Latest Updates Visitor Restrictions Visitor Restrictions Visitor Restrictions Visitor Restrictions CLINICAL SERVICES Services Listing Patient Care Locations Cost Estimator Find a Doctor Information for Referring Physicians MYCHART LOGIN EDUCATION School of Medicine & Dentistry School of Nursing Graduate Education Residency & Fellowships Dental Education Faculty By Department Library Services RESEARCH Our Researchers Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute URMC Research Network Labs Listing UR Ventures Clinical Trials & Studies Research @ URMC Blog ABOUT URMC Maps & Directions Giving to URMC Departments & Centers List Contact Information Newsroom Event Calendar URMC Home Explore URMC menu Patients & Families Our Hospitals Clinical Departments & Centers Health Matters Blog Services Listing Pay Bill Health Encyclopedia Find a Physician For Referring Physicians at the University of Rochester More information on Patients & Families Education Medical Education Residency & Fellowship Graduate Education Postdoctoral Affairs Dental Education Nursing Education Libraries Alumni More information on Education URMC Research URMC Research Labs UR Health Research Education & Training at the University of Rochester Shared Resource Labs and Facilities Technology Transfer More information on Research Community Center for Community Health & Prevention Government & Community Relations Monroe County Community Health Improvement Plan Pediatric Community Resources Community Dentistry Mental Health Community Resources Health Research Employee Wellness Programs More information on Community About URMC Directions to our locations Departments & Centers More information on URMC For Referring Physicians at UR Medicine MyChart Login CONTACT INFORMATIONCREDENTIALSAWARDSPUBLICATIONSJianhui Zhong, Ph.D.Contact InformationPhone NumbersOffice: (585) 273-4518Research LabsMRI research in both basic sciences and applications. Members of the group include physicists and engineers, and we collaborate broadly with neuroscientists and clinicians.Visit MRI research in both basic sciences and applications. Members of the group include physicists and engineers, and we collaborate broadly with neuroscientists and clinicians.Lab WebsiteLocationsUniversity of Rochester Medical CenterSchool of Medicine and Dentistry601 Elmwood Ave, Box 648Rochester, NY 14642Additional LinksUniversity of Rochester Center for Brain ImagingFaculty AppointmentsProfessor - Department of Imaging Sciences (SMD) BiographyResearchJianhui Zhong, Ph.D. is a physicist by training. He graduated from Nanjing University with a BS in Physics in 1982, and from Brown University with a Ph.D. in Physics in 1998. He joined Yale University in 1987 for post-doctoral training, was appointed as Associate Professor in 1997 and then came to University of Rochester, becoming a tenured full Professor in 2004 in Radiology, Physics and Biomedical Engineering. Dr. Zhong has over 25 years experience in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) physics, engineering and biomedical/clinical/neuroscience applications, with over 130 publications. He is one of the leading researchers for complex relaxation and diffusion effects and interactions of magnetic susceptibility and diffusion in tissues, application of diffusion in brain electrical activities and functions, and is one of the major inventors for intermolecular multiple quantum coherence brain imaging. He also has played leadership roles in international organizations, service in U.S. and international funding reviews and reviewing in leading scientific funding agencies and journals. Dr. Zhong is a grantee of many national and private funds, awardees in research excellence by the NIH, Yale and University of Rochester, and he owns 5 U.S. patents. In recent years, Dr. Zhong's research has focused on brain diffusion tensor imaging, quantitative analysis of brain functional imaging and network analysis, fast MR imaging techniques and their applications of MRI and MRI in neuroscience, translational medicine and individual imaging analysis.CredentialsEducation1982BS | Nanjing University, ChinaPhysics1984MS | Brown UniversityPhysics1988PhD | Brown UniversityPhysicsPost-doctoral Training & Residency09/1987 - 12/1989Postdoctoral Fellow Yale University School of MedicineAwards2004Dean's Award for Excellency in Research, University of Rochester2000Summa Cum Laude Citation, the American Society of Neuroradiology1999Certificate of Merit Citation for Scientific Exhibit, Radiological Society of North America1994The Dean's Award, Yale University School of Medicine1992The FIRST Award, NIH1988 - 1990NIH research fellowship.1982 - 1987China US Physics Examination and Application) scholarship, Brown University.VIEW ALL expand_morePublicationsJournal Articles10/29/2020Du J, Liang P, He H, Tong Q, Gong T, Qian T, Sun Y, Zhong J, Li K. "Reproducibility of volume and asymmetry measurements of hippocampus, amygdala, and entorhinal cortex on traveling volunteers: a multisite MP2RAGE prospective study." Acta radiologica.. 2020 Oct 29; :284185120963919. Epub 2020 Oct 29. 10/15/2020Gong T, Tong Q, Li Z, He H, Zhang H, Zhong J. "Deep learning-based method for reducing residual motion effects in diffusion parameter estimation." Magnetic resonance in medicine.. 2020 Oct 15; Epub 2020 Oct 15. 9/17/2020Zhuang Y, Zhang Z, Tivarus M, Qiu X, Zhong J, Schifitto G. "Whole-brain computational modeling reveals disruption of microscale brain dynamics in HIV infected individuals." Human brain mapping.. 2020 Sep 17; Epub 2020 Sep 17. Books & Chapters2003 Chapter Title: FMRI for Monitoring Dynamic Changes in Brain Oxygenation/Blood Flow: Potential Application for Tumor Response to Carbogen Treatment Book Title: Transport to Tissue XXII Author List: Zhong, JH; Kwok, WE; Okunieff, P. Edited By: Dunn, JF; Swartz, HM. Published By: Kluwe Academic/Plenum Publishers 2003 in New York2003 Chapter Title: Basics of Diffusion Measurements by MRI and Normal Brain and Artifacts Book Title: Diffusion Imaging of Brain Author List: Zhong, JH. Edited By: Boritani, Ekholm and Westesson Published By: Springer Verlag 2003 in Heidelberg, Germany1996 Chapter Title: Functional MRI Book Title: Stroke: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis and Management Author List: Gao, JH; Zhong, JH; Fox, P. Edited By: Barnett, HJM; Mohr, JP; Stein, BM; Yatsu, FM. Published By: Churchill Livingstone International 1996VIEW ALL PUBLICATIONS URMC Information About URMC Our Hospitals Departments & Centers Directions & Parking Newsroom Job Opportunities at the University of Rochester Contact Information Tools Event Calendar Find a Physician Health Encyclopedia Faculty Lists MyChart Patient Portal Online Bill Pay General Information UR Medicine University of Rochester Web Accessibility Faculty & Staff Directory Emergency Information 2020 University of Rochester Medical CenterRochester, NY Intranet Email HRMS Remote Access (VPN) Privacy Topics Viewing: K2
