Open Faculty Positions | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search Mechanical Engineering Giving About Facts and Figures Educational Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes Facilities Faculty/Staff Resources Message from the Chair News Open Positions Graduate Masters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Courses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Alumni ME Advisory Board Faculty and Staff Research Research Centers & Laboratories Undergraduate Research William Maxwell Reed Seminar Series Research Areas Mechanical Engineering Giving AboutFacts and Figures Educational Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes Facilities Faculty/Staff Resources Message from the Chair News Open Positions Graduate Undergraduate People Research Open Faculty Positions Faculty Position Available in Unmanned Systems for Precision Meteorology The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Kentucky (http://www.engr.uky.edu/me/) seeks candidates for a tenure-track faculty position at the assistant professor level. Exceptional candidates at the associate professor level or higher will also be considered. This faculty search is focused on identifying highly qualified candidates with demonstrated expertise complementing existing research programs that couple unmanned systems with precision meteorology, including, but not limited to, expertise in computational or theoretical modeling of weather and atmospheric transport processes, sensor development and remote sensing, and development and use of unmanned systems. Exceptional candidates in areas that contribute to other departmental strengths will also be considered. Mechanical Engineering is the largest department in the College of Engineering with 35 tenured and tenure-track faculty members, over 1,000 undergraduate students, and over 120 graduate students. The college has state-of-the-art computational facilities, research labs, and classrooms. The departments faculty is engaged in federally funded research projects from agencies such as NSF, NIH, NASA, DOE, DOD, DARPA, NIST, and USDA. In addition, the department houses the NASA Kentucky Space Grant and EPSCoR programs and has research centers and consortiums that collaborate extensively with industry. The departments externally funded research currently averages over $8M/year in new awards. This faculty search is part of the departments strategic hiring plan, which is adding new tenuretrack faculty positions in the areas of aerospace engineering, autonomy and robotics, bioengineering, energy, and manufacturing. While this search is targeted at research areas that complement unmanned systems and precision meteorology, candidates that can further enhance the departments collaborative environment by bridging multiple focus areas are especially encouraged to apply. Candidates must have a strong record of academic scholarship and high potential for excellence in building an externally funded research program, conducting high-impact research, advising graduate students, teaching undergraduate and graduate courses, and providing service to the department, professional organizations, and the community. Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Mechanical or Aerospace Engineering or a closely related discipline. The city of Lexington is ranked #3 Best City to Raise a Family, #21 Best Places to Live in America, and #31 Most Educated Cities in America. Located in the heart of the Bluegrass Region, Lexington is known as the Horse Capital of the World. Applicants should submit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, statement of research (3-page limit), statement on teaching (2-page limit), and contact information for five references. Please apply for this position at http://ukjobs.uky.edu/postings/251223. Requests for further information regarding application procedures may be directed to Troy Howell: (859) 218-0650, troy.howell@uky.edu. Review of applications will begin on December 6, 2019 and will continue until the position is filled. The desired starting date for this position is August 1, 2020. The University of Kentucky is an Equal Opportunity University that values diversity and inclusion. Minorities, veterans, women, individuals with disabilities, and members of other underrepresented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. Faculty Position Available in Aerospace Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Kentucky (http://www.engr.uky.edu/me/) seeks candidates for a tenure-track faculty position at the assistant professor level in the area of aerospace engineering. Exceptional candidates at the associate professor level or higher will also be considered. This faculty search is focused on identifying highly qualified candidates with demonstrated expertise in aerospace engineering, which may include but is not limited to: new concepts for aerospace vehicles and systems; multiobjective optimization; power and propulsion; meta-materials; aeroelasticity; structural dynamics; and autonomy and robotics. A candidates research focus should have a strong aerospace application and candidates must have a PhD or equivalent degree in Aerospace Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, or a related discipline. The successful candidate will possess a strong record of research accomplishments and the capability to develop an active and nationally recognized research program. This faculty search supports the Mechanical Engineering Departments plans to develop undergraduate and graduate degree programs in aerospace engineering. The Department anticipates continued hiring in aerospace engineering over the next few years. Mechanical Engineering is the largest department in the College of Engineering with 35 tenured and tenuretrack faculty members, over 1,000 undergraduate students, and over 120 graduate students. The College has state-of-the-art computational facilities, research labs, and classrooms. The Departments faculty is engaged in federally funded research projects from agencies such as NSF, NIH, NASA, DOE, DOD, DARPA, NIST, and USDA. In addition, the department houses the NASA Kentucky Space Grant and EPSCoR programs and has research centers and consortiums that collaborate extensively with industry. The Departments externally funded research currently averages over $8M/year in new awards. This faculty search is part of the Departments strategic hiring plan, which is adding new tenure-track faculty positions in the areas of aerospace engineering; autonomy, robotics, and controls; bioengineering; energy; and manufacturing. This search is targeted at faculty candidates with research expertise in aerospace engineering; however, candidates that can bridge multiple focus areas are encouraged to apply. Candidates must have a strong record of academic scholarship and high potential for excellence in building an externally funded research program, conducting high-impact research, advising graduate students, teaching undergraduate and graduate courses, and providing service to the Department, professional organizations, and the community. The city of Lexington is ranked #3 Best City to Raise a Family, #21 Best Places to Live in America, and #31 Most Educated City in America. The University of Kentucky is the flagship university for the Commonwealth and is one of only eight universities in the United States that house colleges of agriculture, engineering, medicine, and pharmacy on a single campus. To apply, please visit the UK Jobs site at: http://ukjobs.uky.edu/postings/251710. Applicants should submit a cover letter, full curriculum vitae, research statement (3-page limit), teaching statement (2-page limit), and contact information for 5 references. We request that the teaching statement specifically address undergraduate and graduate teaching interests in aerospace engineering. For full consideration, please apply by December 6, 2019. Review of applications will continue until the position is filled. The desired starting date for this position is August 1, 2020. Requests for further information regarding application procedures may be directed to Troy Howell: (859) 218-0650, troy.howell@uky.edu. The University of Kentucky is an Equal Opportunity University that values diversity and inclusion. Minorities, veterans, women, individuals with disabilities, and members of other underrepresented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. Department of Mechanical Engineering 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, KY 40506-0503 Phone: (859) 257-6336 Fax: (859) 257-3304 University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
