Undergraduate Programs | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search Mechanical Engineering Giving About Facts and Figures Educational Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes Facilities Faculty/Staff Resources Message from the Chair News Open Positions Graduate Masters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Courses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Alumni ME Advisory Board Faculty and Staff Research Research Centers & Laboratories Undergraduate Research William Maxwell Reed Seminar Series Research Areas Mechanical Engineering Giving About Graduate UndergraduateCourses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Research Undergraduate Programs What do Mechanical Engineers Do? Mechanical engineers apply their expertise to the design, development and mass production of everything from rocket propulsion systems to appliances. Professionals in the industry use mathematics, computers, sophisticated modeling and analysis to solve problems associated with energy usage, propulsion, power generation, sound and vibration, machinery designand manufacturing. Some examples of products and processes developed by mechanical engineers include engines and control systems for automobiles and aircraft, electric power generation plants, lifesaving medical devices, robots and consumer products such as air conditioners, refrigerators and washing machines. In short, mechanical engineers play a part in designing mechanical devices and systems that are a part of our everyday life. How Much Do They Earn? The median annual wage for mechanical engineers was $83,590 in May 2015. Employment of mechanical engineers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2014 to 2024, about as fast as the average for all occupations.Job prospects may be best for those who stay abreast of the most recent advances in technology. *Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2016-17 Occupational Outlook Handbook. Where Do TheyWork? Aerospace Manufacturing Industrial equipment design Consulting firms Government agencies Energy and environmental solutions Aviation Automotive The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers integrated undergraduate programs on two campuses to prepare students for careers in mechanical engineering. Students can pursue a B.S. degree at the Lexington campus, or at the Paducah campus through the Colleges Extended Campus Program. The undergraduate program offers flexibility, as well as sufficient depth and breadth of study through its variety of course offerings. Specific components of undergraduate study include not only the fundamentals of engineering, but also advanced coursework in specialized areas. Students will conclude the program with a two-semester senior capstone project incorporating elements of design, creation and collaboration with participating companies under real-world conditions. The Mechanical Engineering Program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org. Contacts Department Chair Michael Renfro, Ph. D. (859) 257-6336 x80643 Director of Undergraduate Studies Tim Wu, Ph.D. (859) 257-6336 x80644 Academic Advisors Thomas Suggs (859) 257-6336, ext. 80662 Amy Luchsinger (859) 257-6336, ext. 80603 Department of Mechanical Engineering 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, KY 40506-0503 Phone: (859) 257-6336 Fax: (859) 257-3304 University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
