Research Resources | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search About Research Centers Industry Engagement REU Resources Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Research ResourcesStudent Research Resources Lab Safety Training UK Research Resources Industry Engagement About Research Summer Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Research Resources Who are my College Grants Officers? Wendy Compton 367 Ralph G. Anderson Bldg (859) 257-1449 wendy.compton@uky.edu 8H005 Electron Microscopy Center 8H060 Kentucky Transportation Center 8H090 OISTL/Paducah 8H200 Chemical and Materials Engineering 8H300 Civil Engineering 8H350 Mining Engineering Kris Harmon 364 Ralph G. Anderson Bldg (859) 257-9203 kristopher.harmon@uky.edu 8H700 Mechanical Engineering 8H600 Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing 8H750 Institute of Research for Technology Development 8H002 Center for Aluminum Technology 8H400 Electrical and Computer Engineering 8H007 Biomedical Engineering 8H025 Visualization Center 8H040 Computer Science How Can the CGO Assist Me with My Proposal? Proposal Preparation Assist faculty and departmental budget staff with the development of proposal budgets, justifications, sponsor forms, internal routing documentation, etc. for sponsored grants/contracts. College review for all proposal documentation prior to submission to ensure that applicable costing policies are followed and are compliant with university, federal and sponsor guidelines. Facilitate the internal routing process by ensuring that the appropriate documentation has been included for college authorization and release of the proposal to the Office of Sponsored Projects Administration for institutional signature. Identify the need for other required approvals and facilitate interaction with the appropriate offices (e.g. human subjects, animal subjects, biohazards, etc.). Assist faculty with electronic proposal submission to various sponsors. Guide faculty in the preparation of forms to establish subcontracts and consulting agreements. Account & Grant Management Complete periodic reviews of grant-related accounts and expenditures for compliance with sponsor and university guidelines. Serve the college as a liaison with other University units including: Office of Sponsored Projects Administration, Research Financial Services, Accounts Payable, and Purchasing and work with departmental business staff to facilitate the resolution of accounting problems on grant accounts. Coordinate with departmental business staff to ensure that appropriate action is taken for new accounts to document effort (charging and cost-sharing) in FES; coordinate with appropriate person new and existing positions in grant budget; coordinate system to document cost-sharing other than faculty salary. Maintain college proposal files, award documentation, correspondence, etc. Utilize various reporting tools to provide grant management reports for departmental business staff, investigators, department chairs and deans that can be used for strategic planning and monitoring university account activities. Useful Information for Preparing Proposals Find useful information such as the F&A rate, fringe benefits rates, official name and address of the organizationand more here. Download the procedure for obtaining institutional support letter for research grants here. PDO Facilities Description Library Use your LinkBlue ID and password to access descriptions of facilities, colleges, etc.https://ris.uky.edu/pdo/reflib/LogIn.aspx Frequently Asked Questions When do I notify my CGO of my intent to submit a grant? We would like to know of your intentions to submit as early as possible and at least 30 days prior to the sponsors deadline is preferred. What if I decide to submit a proposal but the deadline is less than 30 days away? We understand tight turn-around times and will work with you to meet the external deadlines. The more lead time we have, however, the more we can help. How do I develop an accurate budget for my proposal? We encourage investigators to work with your CGO to develop a detailed budget for the project. The CGO will ensure the adequacy of requested resources and compliance with sponsor and university regulations. Is institutional approval required before I submit my proposal? UK requires program directors/principal investigators (PD/PI) to provide a project title and drafts of the project budget, budget justification, and abstract for review and approval prior to proposal submission. These documents are attached to the electronic Internal Approval Form (eIAF). Who has to approve the eIAF? eIAFs must be approved by the PD/PI, co-investigators, and other faculty who are named as Senior Key Personnel, regardless of their role on the project. Additionally, the eIAF must be approved (certified) by the Chairs, College Grant Officers, and ADRs of each represented faculty member. When does the eIAF have to be completed? The Office of Sponsored Projects Administration (OSPA) requires the eIAF to be fully executedat least three (3) business days prior to the sponsors published deadline. When should I initiate my eIAF? To increase the likelihood of complete routing at least three business days before the sponsors deadline, we recommend initiating the eIAF tenbusiness days before the published due date. Do I have to complete an eIAF for an internal grant opportunity? No. However, your CGOs would still like to work with you on internal grant submissions. We can ensure you have requested adequate resources andobtained the necessary departmental approvals, and we can assist with the preparation and submission of your proposal. Can I submit a grant proposal directly to the sponsor without institutional approval? No. Most grants are made to the institution and not to individual investigators. As such, the institution has a responsibility to review and approve any commitment of resources (effort, lab space, cost-sharing, etc.), ensure alignment with the institutions missions and valuesand capture all of the sponsor-required investigator certifications. What will happen if I submit a proposal outside of the established process and it is awarded? We hope this does nothappen. If it does, we may decline the award if it is not in the best interest of the institution. If the award is accepted, the institution may negotiate significant changes to the budget and/or the terms of the project. This can cause a significant delay in account set-up. Can I submit a pre-application or letter of intent to a sponsor without notifying anyone? We strongly encourage investigators to notify their CGO when they intend to submit a pre-application or letter of intent. We report on all proposal activity and would like to reflect your efforts on the reports. Furthermore, OSPA requires an eIAF for pre-applications that require a budget. Your CGO can help you navigate internal and external requirements for these pre-submissions. Is cost sharing allowed on grant proposals? Voluntary cost sharing is typically prohibited, but sometimes it is necessary for us to assume some of the costs of the project. Before you may add cost share to a proposal budget, it must be approved in advance by the appropriate Chair and the Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies prior to proposal submission to ensure compliance with University cost-share policies. When necessary, it may have to be approved by the Office of Sponsored Projects Administration. If my proposal is declined funding, should I tell anyone? Yes. The Office of Research tracks proposal (pre-application, letter of intent, etc.) submissions throughout their life cycle, and the final funding decision is critical to successful tracking. We provide funding decisions to OSPA so the institutional record is complete as well. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, we can work with you to determine a resubmission strategy when appropriate. University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
