Open Faculty Lines | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search Meet Dean Rudolph G. Buchheit Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History Publications Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources K-12 Outreach Open Faculty Lines Assistant Professor in Chemical Engineering The Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position in chemical engineering at the Assistant Professor level with an anticipated start date of Fall 2020. Applicants should hold a Ph.D. degree in chemical engineering or a related field with a distinguished record of research accomplishments and the capability to develop an active and nationally recognized research program. The successful candidate must demonstrate a strong commitment to undergraduate and graduate education and be qualified to teach courses in chemical engineering. Priority will be given to applicants with a record of research accomplishments in membrane sciences, with emphasis in bioseparations and biotechnology. Apply here. Assistant Professor in Computer Science/Engineering The Department of Computer Science at the University of Kentucky invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position to begin August 2020. We seek excellent candidates in all areas, with a particular desire for expertise in data science and the related areas of machine learning, big data, cloud computing, and data mining. We are seeking energetic and creative faculty who have a passion for teaching students. Candidates should be able to teach courses in our newly established graduate program in Data Science, upper-level courses in their areas of expertise, and, ultimately, core courses in our ABET-accredited undergraduate Computer Science program. We favor researchers who are eager to collaborate to solve problems that extend beyond their own research areas. Our faculty members have established research programs with other members of the department and with a wide variety of other departments and programs, including statistics, biology, linguistics, internal medicine, electrical engineering, computer engineering, and the humanities.Apply here. Lecturer in the First-Year Engineering Program The College of Engineering at the University of Kentucky invites applications for a non-tenure-track Lecturer faculty position with teaching duties focused primarily on hands-on first-year engineering education. The faculty appointment will be in the UK College of Engineering (http://www.engr.uky.edu), and will complement the expertise of our current faculty group affiliated with the First Year Engineering Program. The appointment is on a nine-month (academic year) basis, and is long-term renewable with satisfactory performance. The anticipated start date in July 15, 2020. To prepare for the Fall 2020 semester, one month of summer support will be offered and applicants must be available for preparation and training during summer 2020. Opportunities to teach and/or participate in research in future summer sessions for additional compensation may be available. Duties will include teaching 12-15 classroom contact hours per week, office hours, grading, supervision of teaching assistants and development of course materials. Multiple sections of lecture and laboratory courses will be offered each semester. Course topics include student success strategies, computer programming, software applications, hands-on hardware interfacing, teamwork and engineering design. Lecturer positions do not have required research responsibility; however, interest in engineering education research will be viewed favorably. Lecturer applicants should hold at least a Masters degree with one or more degrees (BS, MS or PhD) in engineering or computer science. Individuals with direct experience in embedded computer programming, engineering design, and/or college-level engineering instruction are especially encouraged to apply. Prior engineering experience in industry is also welcome. Applicants should have strong written and oral communication skills and a commitment to excellence in undergraduate education through active learning, design projects and hands-on activities to supplement lectures. Applyhere. Lecturer in Chemical Engineering The Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering at the University of Kentucky invites applications for a non-tenure track Lecturer faculty position Lecturer in Chemical Engineering. The appointment is on a nine-month (academic year) basis, and is long-term renewable. The anticipated start date is January 6, 2020. Opportunities to teach and/or participate in research in summer sessions for additional compensation may be available. The Lecturer will be responsible for teaching four to six courses per academic year in the chemical engineering curriculum. The individual will have primary responsibility for the chemical engineering capstone design sequence. In addition to classroom contact hours, duties will include office hours, grading, supervision of teaching assistants, and development of course materials. Lecturer applicants should hold a B.S. and Ph.D. in chemical engineering or a related discipline. Individuals who hold an M.S. in chemical engineering with significant industrial experience related chemical process design will also be considered. The individual should have strong written and oral communication skills and a commitment to undergraduate education. The individual is expected to hold or be eligible to hold the Professional Engineer (PE) in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Apply here. Assistant Professor in Aerospace Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Kentucky seeks candidates for a tenure-track faculty position at the assistant professor level in the area of aerospace engineering. Exceptional candidates at the associate professor level or higher will also be considered. This faculty search is focused on identifying highly qualified candidates with demonstrated expertise in aerospace engineering, which may include but is not limited to: new concepts for aerospace vehicles and systems; multi-objective optimization; power and propulsion; meta-materials; aeroelasticity; structural dynamics; and autonomy and robotics. A candidates research focus should have a strong aerospace application and candidates must have a PhD or equivalent degree in Aerospace Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, or a related discipline. The successful candidate will possess a strong record of research accomplishments and the capability to develop an active and nationally recognized research program. This faculty search supports the Mechanical Engineering Departments plans to develop undergraduate and graduate degree programs in aerospace engineering. The Department anticipates continued hiring in the aerospace engineering over the next few years. Apply here. Assistant Professor in Mechanical Engineering The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Kentucky seeks candidates for a tenure-track faculty position at the assistant professor level. This faculty search is focused on identifying highly qualified candidates with demonstrated expertise complementing existing research programs that couple unmanned systems with precision meteorology, including, but not limited to, expertise in computational or theoretical modeling of weather and atmospheric transport processes, sensor development and remote sensing, and development and use of unmanned systems. Exceptional candidates in areas that contribute to other departmental strengths will also be considered. Apply here. Lecturer in Chemical Engineering The Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering at the University of Kentucky invites applications for a non-tenure track Lecturer faculty position Lecturer in Chemical Engineering. The appointment is on a nine-month (academic year) basis, and is long-term renewable. The anticipated start date is January 6, 2020. Opportunities to teach and/or participate in research in summer sessions for additional compensation may be available. The Lecturer will be responsible for teaching four to six courses per academic year in the chemical engineering curriculum. The individual will have primary responsibility for the chemical engineering capstone design sequence. In addition to classroom contact hours, duties will include office hours, grading, supervision of teaching assistants, and development of course materials. Lecturer applicants should hold a B.S. and Ph.D. in chemical engineering or a related discipline. Individuals who hold an M.S. in chemical engineering with significant industrial experience related chemical process design will also be considered. The individual should have strong written and oral communication skills and a commitment to undergraduate education. The individual is expected to hold or be eligible to hold the Professional Engineer (PE) in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Apply here. University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
