Research & Faculty | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search About Research Centers Industry Engagement REU Resources Graduate Studies Meet our Experts Read Our News The UK College of Engineering is home to internationally recognized research programs in a multitude of areas, including energy, security, sustainable manufacturing, resilient infrastructure, transportation, advanced materials, computational systems and health applications. The University of Kentucky is one of only eight universities in the country with a majormedical center featuring six health sciences colleges and the full spectrum of academic colleges on one continuous campus. The close proximity of such a large range of programs is an incubator for inter- and transdisciplinary initiatives. Discoveries from these collaborations allow our researchers to address the needs of the citizens of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, our nation and our world. 43 Faculty with National Fellowships 200+Industry Partnerships $107MTotal active research awards Engineering Better Mental Health Solutions with Sarah Wilson Engineers are often tasked with solving complex problems, and one of their most important tools in finding a solution is their own creativity. Ingenuity thats exactly whatSarah Wilsonwould need when confronted with a public health issue in her field. Biosystems and Biomaterials Dual-purpose Hemp Cultivars and Biofuel Production with Jian Shi Dual-purpose industrial hemp cultivars show the best potential for coproduction of biofuel and bioproducts, according to aUniversity of Kentucky College of Agriculture, Food and Environment study. Medical Imaging Guoqiang Yu's Novel Noncontact Imaging Device Could Change Healthcare In 2020, his team has been awarded four grants from the National Institutes of Health that total nearly $5.7 million. Microfluidics Developing a Mask that Captures and Deactivates COVID-19 with Dibakar Bhattacharyya University of Kentucky engineering professor Dibakar Bhattacharyyarecently announcedhe had the concept and the means to develop a medical face mask that would capture and deactivate COVID-19 on contact. Now, the director of UKsCenter of Membrane Sciences, along with collaborators from two different disciplines, has received a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to make these masks a reality. Software Engineering Software Engineering with Tingting Yu In August 2019, computer science assistant professor Tingting Yu received a three-year grant from the National Science Foundation in the amount of approximately $500,000. The project involves collaboration between University of Kentucky and Stevens Institute of Technology, and the goal is to improve the quality of modern software systems. Yu researches the broad field of software engineering, which largely boils down to creating better software. The goal of her research is to engineer techniques that help developers create more dependable, secure and user-friendly software systems. Nanomaterials Nanobiotechnology with Sheng Tong Associate professor Sheng Tong joined the F. Joseph Halcomb III, M.D., Department of Biomedical Engineering this past fall. Prior to arriving in Lexington, Tong was a research associate professor in the Department of Bioengineering at Rice University. Tongs research synergistically combines nanobiotechnology, drug and gene delivery, and cancer therapy. He is currently focusing on developing genome editing approaches for cancer immune checkpoint blockade therapies. Autonomy, Robotics and Controls Preventing Cattle Loss with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with Jesse Hoagg It's a staggering statistic every year nearly 3 million cows in the U.S. die from health problems. And it's costing the cattle industry more than $1 billion. Combating this economic loss starts at the producer level. Ultimately, improved observation of cows in the pasture is proven to reduce herd loss. Sounds simple enough right? But beef cattle spend a significant amount of time outside, which makes constant monitoring problematic. Could eyes in the sky be the answer? Jesse Hoagg, the Donald and Gertrude Lester Professor ofMechanical Engineeringat theUniversity of Kentucky, thinks so. Fluid Mechanics Unmanned Aerial Vehicles for Measuring Atmospheric Turbulence with Sean Bailey Sean Bailey, associate professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, joined the UK College of Engineering faculty in 2010 after receiving his Ph.D. From the University of Ottawa and subsequently completing his postdoctoral work at Princeton University. In this interview, he discusses the advantages of using unmanned aerial vehicles to measure atmospheric conditions, his various projects that use UAVs and how UAVs may prove vital in the event of an airborne disaster. Construction Engineering & Project Management Disruptive Technology in Construction Management with Hala Nassereddine Civil engineering assistant professor Hala Nassereddine joined the UK College of Engineering faculty this past fall as the newest member of the Construction Engineering and Project Management Program. Nassereddine teaches the introduction to construction management course and will teach a new course on lean systems in construction management in the spring. She is also involved with the Kentucky Transportation Center on multiple highway research projects. Last summer, Nassereddine won the 2019 Construction Industry Institute (CII) Academic Showcase at the CII Annual Conference in San Diego, California. The project for which Nassereddine won the showcase is detailed below in a recent conversation we had about her research focus. Reading the Invisible Library with W. Brent Seales Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didnt do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover. Mark Twain University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
