Get Involved | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search About Research Centers Industry Engagement REU Resources Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Research Resources Industry EngagementResearch and Development Explore Professional Development Get Involved Support the College Talent Pipeline Wildcat Cage Competition About Research Summer Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) Get Involved If your company is looking for ways to establish a presence within the UK College of Engineering, we offer numerous opportunities to make connections. Interact with our student organizations. You can present to a group, host a meeting, support a major project, judge student competitions, mentor student organizations or individuals and more. Sponsor Senior Capstone Design Projects. Providing a capstone design project for student teams is an excellent way to evaluate talent, get a proposed solution to a problem or challenge facing your company and increase your brand presence in the college. Lend your expertise at Career Connections. Volunteer by reviewing student resumes and participating in mock interviews through our Career Connections events. Participate in our Wildcat Cage Competition. Connect with engineering student leaders through a new competition that allows your company to invest in a student organizations initiative. All funds can be considered charitable and tax-deductible. Serve on advisory boards. Access to industry perspective is essential for our departments to be able to offer a leading-edge engineering education. Host Plant Tours. Offering plant tours is another way you can educate students about your products and processes. Be Part of our Engineers Day Open House (E-Day). Our annual E-Day celebration of engineering at UK takes place the last Saturday in February. Get your companys name in front of thousands of engineering enthusiasts of all ages. Deliver a guest lecture. Speak at a student organization meeting or during a class about industry subject matter that will help relate their course content to the real world. It's a great way to increase awareness of your company. Collaborate on outreach initiatives. Throughout the year, we host outreach events that expose K-12 students to the world of engineering. You can join us by hosting a plant tour, serving as a guest speaker, underwriting an event or volunteering. Wildcat Cage Competition.Student organization leaders present their initiatives to industry leaders, company representativesand individuals whoinvest in one or many organizations and completely control how their funds are allocated.Each investor must bring a minimum of $2500 to participate. To get involved with the UK College of Engineering, contact: KimSayre Director of Industry Engagement 859-257-3343 Office 859-699-9090 Cell kim.sayre@uky.edu University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
