F. Joseph Halcomb III, M.D. Department of Biomedical Engineering | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search F. Joseph Halcomb III, M.D. Department of Biomedical Engineering About Message from the Chair Mission Statement History of BME Departmental Documents Resources About Lexington Academics Undergraduate Graduate Minor in Biomedical Engineering Selected Course Listing Career Opportunities People Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Research Publications Laboratories Facilities Undergraduate Research Seminars News Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Our Research Clinical Immersion In the F. Joseph Halcomb III, M.D. Department of Biomedical Engineering, we develop innovative technologies that apply engineering principles to medicine and biology and prepare students for an exciting career in a thriving industry. Within a short walking distance, students can collaborate with experts in our seven engineering departments, the Colleges of Medicine, Design, Dentistry and Pharmacy and the top-ranked hospital in the state. Its no wonder that our graduates rise to leadership positions in the medical device industry, academia and medicine. OnlyBME program powered by Design Thinking $59,015Average starting salary (NACE 2019) $7MGift to the department from alumnus F. Joseph Halcomb III, M.D. Sridhar Sunderam Involved in Two New Grants A major focus in Sunderams lab is how sleep is affected in disorders of the brain--specifically epilepsy and Alzheimers disease--and whether improving sleep can produce beneficial outcomes. Guoqiang Yu Receives New NIH Grant The grant will enable Yu's team to gather additional data for revision of a current R01 application. Drs. Khurana and Chapelin Win Early-Career Research Award at SRU 2020 Their award-winning research was reviewed among several national and international submissions to the annual conference. Read More Department Spotlights Lauren Bell Through the biomedical engineering minor, Lauren Bell experienced graduate-level classes that led her to pursue a master's degree in biomedical engineering. Biomedical Engineering Student Fanny Chapelin Research assistant professor Fanny Chapelinjust completed her Ph.D. in biomedical engineering at University of California at San Diego. Biomedical Engineering Faculty Caigang Zhu Prior to joining UK this fall, assistant professor Caigang Zhuwas a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Duke University. Biomedical Engineering Faculty F. Joseph Halcomb III, M.D. Department of Biomedical Engineering 522 Robotics and Manufacturing Building Lexington, KY 40506-0108 Phone: (859) 257-8101 Fax: (859) 257-1856 University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
