Faculty Resources | Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Undergrad Program Graduate Program Courses People Research Student Life Resources History Contact Us Directions Degree Requirements Earth Science Major Environmental Science Major Earth Science Concentration Environmental Science Concentration Environmental Science Concentration for E3B Senior Capstone Internships/Research Prospective Students Current Students DEES Guide to the PhD Degree Requirements Graduate Courses Prospective Students Admissions FAQ Admissions Requirements Dissertation Sponsors Fall 2020 Weekly Schedule 2020-2021 Year at a Glance Three-Year Course Planner DEES Course List Faculty Affiliated Faculty Administration Graduate Students Approved Dissertation Sponsors People by Research Field Academic Affiliates Affiliated Research Institutions Undergrad Research Clubs and Committees Grants, Awards, & Prizes Graduate Field Trips Undergrad Field Trips Undergraduate Faculty Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences You are here: Home Resources Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Expand all Collapse all Planning for Fall 2020 - Resources Course Design Essentials Designing or redesigning a course? Take a deep dive into the essentials of course design for any classroom formatonline, in-person, or hybrid. Self-enroll in this online CourseWorks offering and design your course anytime and from anywhere. Watch narrated videos and design your course using downloadable worksheets. Upon completing thisasynchronous experience, you should have a plan and the resources needed to continue the design process. For:all Columbia facultyFormat:self-pacedTime Commitment:six hours The five modules include: 1)Course Design: Getting Started 2) Articulating Learning Objectives 3)Assessing Student Learning 4)Planning for Teaching and Learning Activities 5)Putting It All Together Learn more and enroll Hybrid & Online Teaching Institute Join over 750+ Columbia faculty in the Hybrid & Online Teaching Institute! To prepare Columbia faculty for the Fall 2020 semester, the Hybrid & Online Teaching Institute guides faculty through adapting their courses from face-to-face to online or hybrid formats. This offering provides instructors a foundation that can serve across all formats of teaching with the capacity to adapt quickly to whatever mode of teaching makes the most sense at any given time. The institute provides faculty with a comprehensive toolkit they can apply to their own course context whether this may be a seminar, small lecture, or large lecture class. For: all Columbia facultyFormat: mix of self-paced and live sessionsTime Commitment:six hours Learn more and enroll Hybrid/HyFlex Teaching & Learning Guide What is HyFlex? How does it work? What are some strategies for getting started? This guide helps instructors answer these questions by providing an overview and practical strategies for setting up HyFlex activities. Access Resource Planning for Online Lab Sessions Suggestions for considering the role of lab sessions in your students learning, along with specific tactics and resources you can employ to help provide meaningful online lab sessions. https://ctl.columbia.edu/teachingonline/online-labs Working with TAs Online Teaching Assistants can be invaluable partners for faculty and other course instructors. This page offers recommendations and considerations for faculty who are working with TAs to run courses online. https://ctl.columbia.edu/teachingonline/tas-online Grading in Online Courses at Columbia: Tips and Strategies This new resource is structured by common grading needs and provides how to details using CourseWorks (Canvas) and Gradescope. https://ctl.columbia.edu/resources-and-technology/teaching-with-technology/teaching-online/grading-online/ Creating Online Exams Implementing online examscreates a new set of considerations for instructors. You may need to change methods and content to fit an online context, consider how to administer exams fairly for every student, and maintain academic integrity. CourseWorks offers a variety of tools, options, and settings that can help you implement exams efficiently and fairly and make the exam experience positive for you and your students. https://ctl.columbia.edu/resources-and-technology/teaching-with-technology/teaching-online/courseworks/online-exams/ Self-Paced Course: Assessment and Grading in CourseWorks This self-paced course provides an advanced take on the assessment and grading tools in CourseWorks, which are introduced inIntroduction to CourseWorks (Canvas) Online. Throughout the course, you will learn the what, why, and how of effective assessment and grading practices to support teaching and learning. You will be presented with learner-centered, inclusive, and research-based ways to use the tools within CourseWorks to create, organize, and grade various types of assessments of student learning. Enroll Now Maximizing Student Learning This resource provides strategies to be a successful online student, including tools to help implement these strategies. https://online.columbia.edu/students/ Asynchronous Learning Across Time Zones Asynchronous learning gives students the flexibility to access course information, demonstrate their learning, and communicate from anywhere and at any time. This resource provides tips for setting up an online course that allows instructors and students to engage with course material, activities, and each other at different times. Access Resource Accessible and Inclusive Teaching for Any Classroom Format As you plan your Fall 2020 courses, keep accessibility and inclusion in mind so that all your students can participate and succeed in the classroomwhether it may be online or in-person. Learn more about Inclusive Teaching Resources from the CTL. Accessibility in Teaching and Learning This resource provides instructors with an overview of accessibility in teaching and learning in both in-person and online classrooms. Learn general getting started strategies for making learning resources, tools, experiences, and opportunities accessible to all learners. Creating an accessible learning environment for your students is a crucial part of inclusive practice.Accessibility tip:use graphical indicators in teaching materials, rather than color alone. For example, the logo for the CTLsGuide for Inclusive Teachinguses both colors and numbers to prevent confusion for users with color blindness. Access Resource Inclusive Teaching and Learning Online With the shift to online learning, instructors can draw on principles of inclusive teaching to help students feel a sense of belonging, ensure they can access course materials, and support them in achieving learning goals. The current context calls for empathy and resilience on the part of both students and instructors. The following resource provides strategies for inclusive teaching online and is structured around the five principles of inclusive teaching as outlined in theGuide for Inclusive Teaching at Columbia. Access Resource Hybrid Classrooms CUIT has created a webpage on Hybrid Classroomsthat containsguidelines for using thenew technology. Theweb page includes: How to turn on your microphone sound How to adjust the camera view of the classroom How to begin the Zoom session Recommendations for lecture and seminar/discussion classes Recommendations for classes without in-person students The CUIT Classroom Technologies Team will be available MondayFriday from 8am until 8pm. For in-person assistance, please contact them at 212-854-3633. You may also request a training session on your classroom's technology by emailing erooms@columbia.edu. Center for Teaching and Learning Columbia's Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) partners with faculty, students,and colleagues across the Universityto support excellence and innovation in teaching and learning. The CTL provides a range of free services including teaching consultations and observations, and educational technology training and support; programs and events, including workshops, orientations, and institutes, and the development of digital innovations in teaching and learning. The Center offers programs ranging from standalone workshops and workshop series to immersive multi-day institutes and semester-long seminar programs. Columbias learning management system, CourseWorks, is at the center of many instructional technology activities. CTL provides CourseWorks support for content and improving pedagogy. CTL also has resources to support online and hybrid teaching, Faculty of Arts & Sciences All DEES faculty are appointed in the School of Arts & Sciences (A&S). Three Divisional Deans (for Social Sciences, Humanities and Natural Sciences) exercise supervision of academic departments, research centers, institutes and other major units in their division. This includes faculty business that consists of searches, hires, leaves and retentions. They report to the Executive Vice President of Arts & Sciences, Amy Hungerford. The website of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences provides information on various policies on tenure and promotion, leaves, research and teaching. It also includes resources on funding support, awards and fellowship submissions, junior faculty support and work/life benefits. Faculty Handbook The Faculty Handbook details the organization and governance of Columbia University. It is the rule book for academic and research appointments. Guidelines for Proposing a New Course A new DEEScourse proposal requires the submission of aone-page rationale, a proposed coursesyllabus, and course description for the bulletin. Finddetails of this process on our How to Propose a New Course page. Effective Practices and Expectations for Faculty Mentors and Doctoral Advisees Please see thiswebpage from GSAS on effective practices and expectations for faculty mentors and doctoral advisees. Contact Us 106 Geoscience, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory845-365-8550 557 Schermerhorn Hall Extension,Morningside Campus212-854-4525 ChairJerry McManus Associate ChairSidney Hemming Director of Graduate StudiesGran Ekstrm Director of Undergraduate StudiesMeredith Nettles Administrative Staff Director of Academic Administration & FinanceSally Odland Graduate Program ManagerKaleigh Matthews Undergraduate Program Manager & WebmasterAnastasia Yankopoulos Business OfficerYasmin Yabyabin Administrative AssistantMonica Hinojosa Assistant Director, Climate & Society MA ProgramCynthia Thomson 845-365-8550 deesinfo@columbia.edu Morningside Campus557 Schermerhorn Extension, 1200 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Lamont Campus106 Geoscience Building, 61 Route 9W Palisades, NY 10964 Phone 212-854-4525 845-365-8482 Contact Us deesinfo@columbia.edu Columbia University 2020 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close
