Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Vitaliy Lomakin Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty, Center for Magnetic Recording Research Theoretical and computational electromagnetics, including analytical models for studying electromagnetic phenomena occurring in complex structures, fast and robust numerical methods for calculating electromagnetic fields in complex environments, and applications of these analytical and numerical methods to the analysis and design of electromagnetic devices and systems. Professor Lomakin's interests are in electromagnetic theory and applications ranging from efficient computational techniques for studying electromagnetic fields in the frequency and time domains, to wave phenomena occurring on metal-dielectric surfaces, periodic structures and structures incorporations subwavelength features, to spectral and asymptotic techniques in the frequency and time domains, to antenna analysis and design, and to effective properties of complex media. Lomakin's recent research has focused on wave phenomena associated with scattering of electromagnetic fields from metallic plates perforated by holes of subwavelength size. In addition, he has developed several numerical techniques allowing the fast evaluation of transient electromagnetic fields in free space and layered medium environments, which have potential applications in simulation of integrated circuits and photonic structures. In past, he studied effective properties of complex media and worked on a new class of cell-phone antennas with high efficiency and low body loss. At UCSD, Lomakin supports ongoing efforts in traditional areas such as microwaves and antenna design, analysis and design of multilayered printed circuit boards and optoelectronics. He is also extending his research to include nanophotonics -- given its critical dependence on electromagnetics -- as well as investigating metamaterials, such as left-handed materials. Capsule Bio:Vitaliy Lomakin joined ECE in September 2005. He received his M.Sc. degree from Kharkiv National University (Ukraine) in 1996 and Ph.D. degree from Tel Aviv University (Israel) in 2003, both in Electrical Engineering. While completing his Ph.D. dissertation, he was an instructor in the Department of Electrical Engineering, Tel Aviv University, and worked part-time for Xellant, an Israeli high-tech company. In 2002-2005 he was a Postdoctoral Associate and Visiting Assistant Professor in the Center for Computational Electromagnetics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research interests include analytical and numerical methods for studying electromagnetic fields in complex configurations as well as applications of these methods for the analysis and design of novel devices and systems. He teaches core undergraduate level courses in electrical engineering and electromagnetics, and assists in the development of a graduate sequence in electromagnetics and optics. Email:vlomakin@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-4726 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
