Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Tara Javidi Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2Faculty, Calit2 Wireless systems: stochastic and optimal resource allocation, network design and control, multi-access control, and topology design in ad hoc systems. Professor Javidi's research area involves stochastic analysis, design, and control of information collection, processing, and transfer in modern communication and networked systems. This covers broad theoretical questions as well as practical implementation of various solutions. In her research group, Professor Javidi and her graduate students often prove theorems about the performance limitations of modern information collection and communication systems but they also build and test their theoretical findings when possible. A roughbreak down of her (overlapping) areas of work includes: Information acquisition and utilization (such as active hypothesis testing and variable length coding over channels with feedback),Optimal routing in wireless mesh networks (addressing both theoretical guarantees as well as testbed implementation),Cognitive and delay-sensitive communications and networking, Stochastic optimization in multi server optimization, and Communications under Application and/or Secrecy Constraints. In addition to these areas, another interest of Professor Javidi lies in the applications of microeconomic theory and organizational science to the design of wireless networks. Capsule Bio:Javidi received her BS in electrical engineering at Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran. She received her MS degrees in electrical engineering (systems) and in applied mathematics (stochastic analysis) from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in 1998 and 1999, respectively. She received her Ph.D. in electrical engineering and computer science from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in 2002. From 2002 to 2004, Javidi was an assistant professor at the Electrical Engineering Department, University of Washington, Seattle. In 2005, she joined the University of CaliforniaSan Diego, where she is currently a professor of electrical and computer engineering. In 2013-2014, she spent her sabbatical at Stanford University as a visiting faculty. At UC San Diego, Javidi is a founding co-director of the Center for Machine-Integrated Computing and Security, is the principal investigator of DetecDrone Project and is a faculty member of the Centers of Information Theory and Applications (ITA), Wireless Communications (CWC), Contextual Robotics Institute (CRI) and Networked Systems (CNS). She is also a founding faculty member of Halicioglu Data Science Institute (HDSI) at UC San Diego. At UC San Diego, she is an affiliate faculty member in the departments of Computer Science and Engineering as well as Ethnic Studies. She is also a member of Board of Governors of the IEEE Information Theory Society (2017/18/19). Javidis research interests are in theory of active learning, information acquisition and statistical inference, information theory with feedback, stochastic control theory, and wireless communications and communication networks. She was the guest editor for the IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in Communications special issue on Communications and Control. From 2011 to 2014, she was an associate editor for ACM/IEEE Transactions on Networking and the editor for the IEEE Information Theory Society Newsletter. From 2014-2017, she served as an associate editor for IEEE Transactions on Information Theory. She currently serves as an associate editor for IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. Javidi received the 2018 Qualcomm Faculty Award for her contributions to wireless technology. Javidi was a recipient of the National Science Foundation early career award (CAREER) in 2004, Barbour Graduate Scholarship, University of Michigan, in 1999, and the Presidential and Ministerial Recognitions for Excellence in the National Entrance Exam, Iran, in 1992. In addition to numerous contributed and invited talks, she was a tutorial speaker at various international and prestigious conferences: International Conference on Cognitive Radio Oriented Wireless Networks (CROWNCOM) 2010, ACM International Symposium on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking and Computing (Mobihoc) 2013, International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT) 2014, and IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) 2016. Tara Javidi was a Distinguished Lecturer of the IEEE Information Theory Society (2017/18). She is currently a Distinguished Lecturer of the IEEE Comunnications Society (2019/20). Email:tjavidi@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-4924 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
