Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Laurence B. Milstein Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Digital communications theory and wireless communications, specializing in spread-spectrum systems. Other areas of expertise include signal transmission, bandwidth considerations, and broadband wireless. Professor Milstein is a theoretician, and does performance analysis and conceptual design of communication systems. Milstein began working on spread-spectrum while working for a defense contractor (see bio), at a time when the technology was primarily for military applications. Since 1989, commercial interest in spread-spectrum has soared, particularly with respect to code division multiple access (CDMA). In CDMA, users can all be on simultaneously, occupying the entire frequency band, by superimposing upon each data symbol a so-called spreading sequence. A competing multiple access technique, TDMA (time division multiple access), also lets each user use the entire spectrum, but sequentially (in short bursts). Milstein can also talk about what system designers are doing to offset the shortage of available bandwidth (e.g., going to higher frequency bands). Other areas of expertise include, signal transmission, bandwidth considerations, and broadband wireless. Capsule Bio:Larry Milstein joined the UCSD faculty in 1976, and is a former chairman of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department. He earned his Ph.D. in 1968 from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. From 1968-1974, Milstein worked on satellite communications in the Space and Communications Group of Hughes Aircraft Company, and from 1974-1976, he was on the faculty of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, NY. An IEEE Fellow, Milstein has served on the Board of Governors of both the IEEE Communications Society and the IEEE Information Theory Society. He has been a consultant to both government and industry in radar and communications. He is also a member of Eta Kappa Nu and Tau Beta Pi. Institute Affiliations: Center for Wireless Communications Email:lmilstein@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-3096Institute Affiliations:Center for Wireless Communications California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology, Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
