Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Vikash Gilja Assoc Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty, Electrical and Computer Engineering Professor Giljas research focuses on brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) with a specific interest in translating basic research into clinical applications. Using statistical signal processing, machine learning and real-time embedded systems, he develops BMIs that effectively use neural signals to control prosthetic devices for individuals with paralysis and neurodegenerative disease. More generally, he is interested in the development of diagnostic and therapeutic methods that leverage novel techniques and insights from neuroscience to better understand and address neurological and psychological disorders. His approach uses large scale datasets and closed loop control experiments with a variety of neural measurement techniques, including functional imaging and electrophysiology. At UC San Diego, he is using this multi-modal neural measurement approach with human participants to advance the engineering science of BMI and broaden their potential for clinical application. Capsule Bio: Dr. Gilja received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2010. His graduate work focused on the development of novel neural recording systems and high performance brain machine interfaces. Subsequently, as a research associate, he helped found the Neural Prosthetics Translational Laboratory at Stanford University and worked to translate his graduate work to clinical application. Dr. Gilja is a Siebel Scholar and was awarded the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship and the NDSEG Fellowship. His research interests are oriented towards applying biosensor technologies, imaging techniques, and real time signal processing algorithms to advance the engineering science and clinical application of brain machine interface. Dr. Gilja teaches undergraduate courses in systems engineering and signal processing and graduate seminars in neural engineering. Email:vgilja@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0685 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
