Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Massimo Franceschetti Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Information science of complex networks and systems: applications to control, computation, communication, and sensing. Professor Franceschetti's work spans a continuum from algorithms, models of wave propagation, network analysis and design, information theoretic limits, andcontrol technologies. One of his key contributions has been the application of tools from statistical physics, namely percolation theory, to analyze andexplain observable phenomena such as scaling laws. He also has applied random walk theory to describe wireless signal propagation and its interactionwith the environment. Professor Franceschetti's recent research has focused on the study of dynamical systems of agents interacting over networks. His research groupgave rigorous solutions for the two-dimensional version of a model of social segregationpopular in the social sciences. They also studied the spreading of emotions in on-line social networks by analyzing data from millions of users in a collaborativeproject with Facebook inc. In contrast to previous studies where researchers secretly changed news feeds of some users in order to study their reaction, this study was based on a novel, non-invasivetechnique that was transparent to the users. Professor Franceschetti is also interested in theintersection of electromagnetic and information theories. His physical approach to communication and sensing is illustrated inhis book entitled "Wave Theory of Information,"published by Cambridge University press in 2018. Capsule Bio:Born in Naples, Italy, Professor Franceschetti received most of his undergraduate education in Italy, where he attended the Electrical and Computer Engineering program of University Federico II ofNaples, Italy, with a one year stint in Scotland, at University of Edinburgh, where he took courses in the Computer Science Department as part of a European exchange program. He graduated from University Federico II of Naples in 1997, and then moved to the United States to attend graduate school at the California Institute of Technology. There, he received a M.Sc. in 1999and a PhD in 2003 in Electrical Engineering. While at Caltech, his distinctions included receiving the Walker von Brimer award for outstanding research initiative in 2000, and the C. H. Wiltz prize forbest PhD thesis in Electrical Engineering in 2003. Upon departure from Caltech, he spent two years at the University of California at Berkeley as a postdoctoral scholar in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and thenjoined the faculty of the University of California at San Diego, in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. In the course of his career, he also held visiting positions at the VrijeUniversiteit Amsterdam, the Netherlands, the Ecole polytechnique federale de Lausanne, Switzerland, and the University of Trento, Italy. His contributions to the theory of wavepropagation and multiple scattering were recognized by the S.A. Schelkunoff Transactions prize paper award from the Antennas and Propagation society of the institute of Electrical and ElectronicsEngineers (IEEE). His work on stochastic geometry and random graphs for the analysis and design of wireless networks was recognized by the IEEE Communications society best tutorial paperaward; while his work at the intersection of control and communication was recognized by the Ruberti young researcher prize of the IEEE Control Theory Society, awarded for ``contributions inphysical and information-based foundation of networked control and communication systems.'' Professor Franceschetti co-authored a book on random networks for communication, which was published in 2007 by Cambridge University press, and was elected Fellow of the IEEE in 2018 for "contributions to random wireless networks."He also received a National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2006 and an Office of Naval Research Young Investigator award in 2007. He authored the book "Wave Theory of Information,"published by Cambridge University press in 2018 and was nominated Guggenheim fellow in the category natural sciences, engineering, in 2019. Email:mfranceschetti@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-2284 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
