Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Daniel F. Sievenpiper Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Novel electromagnetic media including nonlinear and active metasurfaces and other periodic structures for radio through optical frequency applications Professor Sievenpiper's research is focused on novel structures for controlling the interaction between electromagnetic waves and matter ranging from radio to optical frequencies. Periodic structures such as metasurfaces provide a medium for incorporating nonlinear or active circuit elements for applications such as antenna isolation, scattering control, improved absorption, and bandwidth enhancement for microwave structures. They can also enable extreme electric field enhancement for photoemission based microelectronic and plasmonic devices. Specific techniques include mathematics for arbitrary anisotropic impedance surface patterning, nonlinear or non-Foster based active materials, and nano-scale periodic structures for new optical effects. We also develop small broadband antennas, and new devices for biological applications of electromagnetics. Capsule Bio: Professor Dan Sievenpiper joined the UC San Diego faculty in 2010. He received his BS in 1994 and his PhD in 1999 from UCLA, where he studied photonic crystals and other periodic structures, and invented the high impedance electromagnetic surface. Dan joined HRL (the former Hughes Research Laboratories) in Malibu, CA in 1999. During the following 11 years, he and his team developed new electromagnetic structures, with an emphasis on small, conformal, tunable, and steerable antennas. Dan held a variety of technical and management positions at HRL including Director of the Applied Electromagnetics Laboratory. In 2010 he joined UC San Diego, where his research is focused on artificial media, and the integration of active electronics with electromagnetic structures and antennas to enable new capabilities and applications. In 2008, Dan received the URSI Issac Koga Gold Medal, and also the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society Piergiorgio Uslenghi Letters Prize Paper Award. In 2009, he was named as a Fellow of the IEEE. Since 2010, Dan has served as an associate editor of IEEE Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters. He also served as the chair of the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society Administrative Committee on New Technology Directions from 2012-2015. Dan has more than 70 issued patents and more than 100 publications. Email:dsievenpiper@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-6678 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
