Faculty Recruitment | Electrical and Computer Engineering Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering AboutHistoryImpactIndustrial Advisory BoardContact UsECE BrochureFaculty RecruitmentChairs MessagePeopleFacultyResearchersStaffResearchResearch ProjectsBooks by FacultyLaboratories and CentersResearch AreasUndergraduateUndergraduate AdmissionsWASC AccreditationDegree ProgramsCoursesHands-On CoursesMakerspaceOrientationUndergraduate Advising OfficeGraduateGraduate AdmissionsGraduate ProgramsResearch Areas/Degree PlannersCoursesECE Enrollment Policy and ProcedureInternational Student IPortal RequestsFinancial SupportStudent Affairs OfficeResourcesMakerspaceNews & EventsAwardsNewsSeminarsGalleryDesign Competition AlumniWelcomeInvolvementECE Alumni Advisory BoardUpdate UsGive to ECEAlumni NewsletterJob Board Search Search Faculty Recruitment Assistant Professor University of California, San Diego, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, invites applications for multiple tenure-track faculty positions (Assistant Professor) in our dynamic and rapidly growing department. ECE is part of the Jacobs School of Engineering, committed to building an excellent, diverse and inclusive faculty, staff and student body. Partnership with industry and our community is at the core of the School's mission; the successful applicant will be expected to establish a vigorous program of high quality research that complements existing collaborative research programs and reflects UC San Diego's leadership as a research university. Faculty in the department benefit from the presence of numerous major research centers at UC San Diego and the Jacobs School's leadership in fostering interdisciplinary basic research and collaborations with industry. The open positions are in all areas of Electrical and Computer Engineering. In addition to the highest standards of scholarship, teaching, and professional activity, successful candidates will have potential or demonstrated contributions to a climate that supports equity, inclusion, and diversity. These positions require teaching of university students and applicants are required to have a PhD or advancement to candidacy at the time of application. The degree should be in electrical engineering, electrical and computer engineering, engineering physics, computer engineering, material science, computer science, mechanical engineering, or a related area. Salary is based on published UC San Diego pay scales and competitive market conditions. Applicants should submit a current curriculum vitae with complete publication list, three letters of reference requested through AP On-Line Recruit, separate statements summarizing teaching experience; research interests and leadership; and past experience in activities that promote diversity and inclusion and/or plans to make future contributions. For further information about contributions to diversity statements, see http://ece.ucsd.edu/about/faculty-recruitment/contributions-to-diversity We encourage candidates to send applications as soon as possible. Applications received by December 16, 2019 will be given full consideration. However, the search will remain open until the positions are filled. All applications should be submitted via our AP On-Line Recruit submission web site at: https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/apply/JPF02285 For applicants with interest in spousal/partner employment, please see the UC San Diego Partner Opportunities Program website. The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer with a strong institutional commitment to excellence through diversity. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. Assistant Professor - Neurosciences and ECE The Department of Neurosciences and the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California, San Diego invites applications from outstanding candidates for a tenure-track faculty position (Assistant Professor) jointly appointed across the Departments of Neurosciences and Electrical and Computer Engineering. This initiative seeks to transform medicine through advances in engineering and computer science that enable insights into brain function neurological disorders. Successful appointees will be expected to establish a vigorous program of high-quality research, a commitment to excellence in teaching, a commitment to university service, and a commitment to support diversity, equity, and inclusion at the university. The University of California, San Diego, is committed to academic excellence and diversity within the faculty, staff, and student body. Successful applicants will be expected to teach graduate and undergraduate students in the participating departments and establish a vigorous program of high-quality federally funded research that focuses on innovative approaches that may include but are not limited to: Engineering, computer science and computational approaches to neuroscience, neurology, and related fields Soft-robotics and other engineering applications relevant to neurosciences and brain medical intervention Imaging, probes, or sensing mechanisms for monitoring or manipulating brain function New modalities or multimodalities for brain interfaces that expand or complement existing strengths across the two departments Quantum biology applied to the brain Review of applications will begin on December 13, 2019 and continue until the position is filled. Applications must be submitted electronically through AP-Online Recruit website: https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/apply/JPF02289 For applicants with interest in spousal/partner employment, please see http://academicaffairs.ucsd.edu/aps/partneropp/index.html for the UC San Diego Partner Opportunities Program. UC San Diego is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer with a strong institutional commitment to excellence through diversity. . All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. Applicants must have a PhD and/or MD, or equivalent (or advancement to candacy) in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Neurosciences, or related fields. Leadership in national organizations is preferred. Commitment to support diversity, equity, and inclusion in an academic setting is preferred. The level of appointment and salary is commensurate with qualifications and based on UC pay schedules. Assistant Teaching Professor The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UCSD (http://www.ece.ucsd.edu) invites applications for an Assistant Teaching Professor with potential security of employment position. The official title for this teaching faculty series is Lecturer with Potential Security of Employment (LPSOE), which carries equivalent rights and responsibilities as the more traditional research-focused tenure-track faculty series. However, Teaching Professors are expected to place their main emphasis on teaching and scholarly activity related to education. Successful candidates will be outstanding educators and should provide evidence of effective and innovative undergraduate teaching in electrical and computer engineering. In addition to teaching core courses, candidates are expected to lead the development and assessment of new educational initiatives and hands-on projects, including applying for grants related to education. The successful candidate will provide guidance, leadership, and innovation for the ECE undergraduate programs, with a specific focus on both adding to the high quality of these programs and on broadening the diversity of the student body in these programs. Candidates are required to have a Ph.D. degree or advancement to candidacy, at the time of application, in electrical engineering, computer engineering, computer science, or a related area. The ECE Department is committed to building an excellent and diverse faculty, staff and student body. In addition to the highest standards of scholarship, teaching, and professional activity, the preferred candidates for any position will have potential or demonstrated contributions to a climate that supports equity, inclusion, and diversity. All candidates are asked to describe explicitly the nature of their commitment to and experience with underrepresented groups. ECE is home to over 50 faculty, 900 graduate students, and 1300 undergraduate students who span a range of research areas in communication theory and systems, computer engineering, electronic circuits and systems, electronic devices and materials, machine learning and control, photonics, and signal and image processing. Applicants should submit a current curriculum vitae, three letters of references requested through AP On-Line Recruit, a statement of teaching, a statement of scholarly activities (which can include research), and a statement of past experience in activities that promote diversity and inclusion and/or plans to make future contributions. For further information about contributions to diversity statements, see http://ece.ucsd.edu/contributions-to-diversity. We encourage candidates to send applications as soon as possible. Applications received by November 1, 2019 will be given full consideration. However, the position will remain open until filled. To apply, all applications should be submitted via our AP On-Line Recruit submission web site at: https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/apply/JPF02128 For applicants with interest in spousal/partner employment, please see the UCSD Partner Opportunities Program website https://aps.ucsd.edu/services/pop/index.html The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer with a strong institutional commitment to excellence through diversity. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. Temporary Lecturer (Unit 18) Positions The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) at UC San Diego has multiple opportunities for temporary, non-tenure track, lecturer (Unit 18) positions. Position appointments may be for a duration of up to two years. Courses may be at the graduate or undergraduate level and are in the area of electrical and computer engineering. Candidates must hold a minimum of a master's degree, preferably a Ph.D. degree, in electrical engineering, engineering physics, computer engineering, or a related area. Candidates must have demonstrated evidence of prior teaching experience. We encourage candidates to send applications as soon as possible. Applications received by May 2, 2020 will be given full consideration. However, the search will remain open until the positions are filled. To apply, submit a Curriculum Vitae, Contributions to Diversity Statement, and Statement of Teaching to: https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/JPF02472 The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer with a strong institutional commitment to excellence through diversity. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age or protected veteran status. About History Impact Industrial Advisory Board Contact Us ECE Brochure Faculty Recruitment Contributions to Diversity Chairs Message Information Footer Information Alumni Contact Us Events News Map Quick Links Footer Quicklinks Faculty Directory Staff Directory Labs and Centers Stay Connected Jacobs Hall, EBU1, 2nd Floor Jacobs School of Engineering University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive La Jolla, CA 92093 Copyright Regents of the University of California. All Rights Reserved Login
