Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Paul K.L. K. Yu Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringProvost, Revelle CollegeFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Microwave photonics, with research on electronic and opto-electronic devices and advanced materials for use in photonic devices. For twenty years, Professor Yu has been working on devices that enhance the performance of telecommunications networks. His current focus on transmitting microwave signals through optical fiber has the potential to revolutionize communications by paving the way for broadband speeds many times faster than today's advanced 10 Gigabit per second (Gbps) systems. While working on devices that may not reach the commercial market for five years or longer, Yu can speak about the challenges that academic and industry researchers face as they push fiber transmission speeds to 40Gbps and higher, while improving efficiency as well. Yu is also an expert on the increasing uses of photonic approaches to what had been exclusively electronic applications, and can explain advances in state-of-the-art photonic devices such as laser diodes, high power lasers, external modulators, optical amplifiers, and photodetectors. At UCSD, Yu is also part of the Materials Science and Engineering program and Institute of Engineering in Medicine. He works on new materials to be used in the construction of advanced optoelectronic devices. Capsule Bio:Paul K.L. Yu joined the UCSD faculty in 1983 and is a professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department. He is one of five professors responsible for UCSD's Integrated Technologies Laboratory, which makes experimental electronic devices. Since January 2000, Yu has been an academic participant in the Calit2 Materials and Devices group. He participates in the Photonics Society of Chinese-Americans and is a Fellow of IEEE and a Fellow of the Optical Society of America. Yu is currently the President Elect of the IEEE Electron Devices Society. He has published more than 100 papers in the area of photonics. He received his Ph.D. from Caltech in 1983. Email:reprovost@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-1571Institute Affiliations:California Institute for Telecommunications and Information TechnologyInstitute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
