Faculty and Doctoral | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content Apply For Companies Give Faculty and Doctoral Faculty and Doctoral At a research university such as UCLA, a highly effective means of increasing the global content of courses comes throughsupport of the globalresearch of faculty, Ph.D. and MBA students. Faculty and Doctoral The Center for Global Management provides seed funding to support UCLA Anderson faculty and doctoral students in developing global research and courses with business and management relevancethat advance global management thinking and address global management and economic issues, international relations or issues of global/regional cooperationce. Research proposals with an applied focus are preferred, though theoretical proposals with a strong global purview are also considered for CGM support. Development of case studies or other pedagogical materials is encouraged, and the CGM especially welcomes interdisciplinary proposals. Funding decisions are made by the directors of the CGM, in consultation with the CGM's Research and Teaching Advisory Committee. Funding is typically used for the hiring of research assistants (UCLA Anderson Ph.D. and MBA students are encouraged), purchase of datasets, data collection and analysis, as well as international research travel, co-author meetings and attendance at research conferences. The CGM also provides funding to support up to four students per year (up to a maximum of $500 per student) who will present a global research paper at a research conference and who have not not been awarded a CGM global research award. 2018-2019 GLOBAL RESEARCH FACULTY GRANT RECIPIENTS Christian Dippel, assistant professor of global economics and management: Managing the Empire: The Impact of Management Styles on Performance." Ricardo Perez-Truglia, assistant professor of global economics and management: Using Field Experiments to Evaluate Management Practices around the Globe (Vietnam and India) (continuation of 201718 award). Jennifer Walske, adjunct assistant professor of management and organizations and interim faculty director, Impact@Anderson: The Scaling of Social Startups on a Global Basis." 2018-2019 GLOBAL RESEARCH DOCTORAL GRANT RECIPIENTS Bruno Pellegrino, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2014): Going Global: A Firm-Level Data Set to Study the International Operations of Multinational Firms. Yuqing Zhou, Ph.D. candidate in accounting (entered 2016): Firms Outcomes and Ancestral Characteristics. Sebastian Ottinger, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2016): Immigration and Industry-Specific Knowledge Transmission: The Legacy of the Age of Mass Migration on Manufacturing Employment Patterns in U.S. Counties. Thomas Groesbeck, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2016): How Technological Protectionism Backfires: A Case Study in Orbit. Paul Momtaz, Ph.D. candidate in finance (entered 2017): The Freelance Economy: Where Local Labor Supply Meets Global Labor Demand. 2017-2018 GLOBAL RESEARCH FACULTY GRANT RECIPIENTS Henry Friedman, assistant professor of accounting: How Institutional and Cultural Factors Affect Capital Markets and Managerial Decisions: An Empirical Investigation (continuation of 201617, 201516, 201415, 201314 and 201213 awards). Uday Karmarkar, The Los Angeles Times Professor of Management and Policy and Distinguished Professor of Decisions, Operations and Technology Management, and Vandana Mangal, executive director of Easton Technology Management Center and co-director of the Business and Information Technologies (BIT) global research project: "Reorganizing and Opensourcing the Global BIT Research Network: BIT 2.0 (continuation of 201617, 201516, 201415, 201314 and 201213 awards)." Ricardo Perez-Truglia, assistant professor of global economics and management: A Study of Management Practices around the World: Management Economics Experiential Evidence (Vietnam and Malaysia). Romain Wacziarg, Hans Hufschmid, Chair in Management and professor of global economics and management, in collaboration with Klaus Desmet, Southern Methodist University, and Ignacio Ortuno Ortin, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (Part 1); and Enrico Spolaore, Tufts University (Part 2): Culture, Ancestry and Socioeconomic Outcomes: Within Countries and Between Countries (continuation of 201617, 201516, 201415 and 201314 awards). Sanford Dovoe, associate professor of management and organizations, in collaboration with Ashley Whillans, Harvard Business School; and Colin West, Ph.D. candidate in management and organizations (entered 2016): "Alleviating Time Poverty: Exploring the Economic Consequences of Informal Exchanges of Time Amongst the Working Poor (Kenya). 2017-2018 GLOBAL RESEARCH DOCTORAL GRANT RECIPIENTS Juan Angel Matamala Gonzalez, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2015): Effects of Student Diversity on Education and Later-Life Outcomes: Evidence from Chile. Paul Momtaz, Ph.D. candidate in finance (entered 2017): Institutional Determinants of Global Venture Capital. Colin West Ph.D. candidate in management and organizations (entered 2016), in collaboration with Sanford DeVoe, associate professor of management and organizations; and Ashley Whillans, Harvard Business School: Alleviating Time Poverty: Exploring the Economic Consequences of Informal Exchanges of Time Amongst the Working Poor (Kenya). 2016-2017 GLOBAL RESEARCH FACULTY GRANT RECIPIENTS Christian Dippel, assistant professor of global economics and management, in collaboration with Stephan Heblich, University of Bristol, and Robert Gold, Institute for the World Economy: The Syrian Refugee Crisis and the Populist Surge in Germany. Sebastian Edwards, Henry Ford II Chair in International Management and distinguished professor of global economics and management: Exchange Rate Volatility During Turbulent and Tranquil Periods: An Empirical Analysis. Henry Friedman, assistant professor of accounting: How Political, Institutional and Cultural Factors Affect Capital Markets and Managerial Decisions: An Empirical Investigation (continuation of 201516, 201415, 201314 and 201213 awards). Uday Karmarkar, distinguished professor and L.A. Times Chair in Technology and Strategy, and Vandana Mangal, executive director of Easton Technology Management Center and co-director of Business and Information Technologies (BIT) Global Research Project: Reorganizing the BIT Project: Developing the Infrastructure for the New BIT Model (continuation of 201415, 201314 and 201213 awards). Ricardo Perez-Truglia, assistant professor of global economics and management: How Do Inflation Expectations Affect Firm and Customer Decisions? (Argentina, Chile and Vietnam). Romain Wacziarg, Hans Hufschmid Chair in Management and professor of global economics and management, in collaboration with Klaus Desmet, Southern Methodist University; Ignacio Ortuno Ortin, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (Part 1), and Enrico Spolaore, Tufts University (Part 2): Ethnicity, Preferences and Socioeconomic Outcomes: Within Countries and Between Countries (continuation of 201516, 201415 and 201314 awards. Shi Zhang, associate professor of marketing, in collaboration with Siqing Peng, Beijing University; Wu Fang and Sun Qi, University of Finance and Accounting, Shanghai; Qingyun Jiang, Fudan University; and Wenting Teng, Shenzhen Stock Exchange: Brand Stigmatization in an Emerging Market (China) (continuation of 201415 award). 2016-2017 GLOBAL RESEARCH DOCTORAL GRANT RECIPIENTS Stefano Florin, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2012), in collaboration with Andrea Di Miceli, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2011): Preference-Based Home Bias: The Effect of Cultural Proximity on Loan Repayment (Kenya and the Philippines) (continuation of 201516 and 201415 awards). Vasily Korovkin,Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2012): Is Corruption a Skill? (Russia) (continuation of 201516 award). Juan Angel Matamala Gonzalez, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2015): An Analysis of the Effects of Maternity Leave on Womens Career Choice and Wages In a Global and Regional Context (Chile). Bruno Pellegrino, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2014): Informal Networks and Moral Hazard (Italy) (continuation of 201516 award). Yang Yang, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2011): High-Speed Rail: Entrepreneurs and Innovation Activities (Japan). 2015-2016 GLOBAL RESEARCH FACULTY GRANT RECIPIENTS Leonardo Bursztyn, University of Chicago, in collaboration with David Yanagizawa-Drott, University of Zurich: Understanding and Shifting Social Norms: Evidence from Female Labor Force Participation in Saudi Arabia. Charles Corbett, IBM Chair in Management and professor of operations management and sustainability and Felipe Caro, Associate Professor of decisions, operations and technology management, in collaboration with Christian Blanco, UCLA Anderson Ph.D. candidate in decisions, operations and technology management (entered 2012): Water Footprinting and Disclosure in the Global 500 Firms (continuation of 201415 and 201314 awards). Christian Dippel, assistant professor of global economics and management, in collaboration with Florian Hoffman, University of British Columbia: Empire and Innovation: Knowledge Flow in the Colonial Tropics. Henry Friedman, Distinguished Professor and Henry Ford Chair in International Management: How Political, Institutional and Cultural Factors Affect Capital Markets and Managerial Decisions (continuation of 201415, 201314 and 201213 awards). Uday Karmarkar, distinguished professor and L.A. Times Chair in Technology and Strategy, and Vandana Mangal, executive director of Easton Technology Management Center and research director of Business and Information Technologies (BIT): Reorganizing the BIT Project: Developing the Infrastructure for the New BIT Model (continuation of 201415, 201314 and 201213 awards). Nico Voigtlaender, assistant professor of global economics and management, in collaboration with Alvaro Garcia-Marin (Ph.D. 14), Universidad de los Andes Chile: Exporting and Productivity Spillovers (Mexico). Romain Wacziarg, Hans Hufschmid , Chair in Management and professor of global economics and management, in collaboration with Klaus Desmet, Stanford University, and Ignacio Ortuno Ortin, Universidad Carlos III de Madrid (Part 1) and Enrico Spolaore, Tufts University (Part 2): Ethnicity, Preferences and Socioeconomic Outcomes: Within Countries and Between Countries (continuation of 201415 and 201314 awards). 2015-2016 GLOBAL RESEARCH DOCTORAL GRANT RECIPIENTS Andrea Di Miceli, Ph.D.candidate in global economics and management (entered 2011): The Private Sector Impact on Armed Conflict: The Case of Myanmar. Stefano Fiorin, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2012), in collaboration with Andrea Di Miceli: Speaking the Same Language: The Effect of Cultural Proximity on Loan Repayment (Kenya) (continuation of 201415 award). Shenje Hshieh and Jiasun Li Ph.D candidates in finance (both entered 2011): The Global Network of Corporate Ownership. Vasily Korovkin, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2012): Welfare Effects of Foreign Firms Access to Domestic Markets: Link through Corruption. Bruno Pellegrino, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2014): Affect, Context and the Economics of Cooperation (Italy). Michael Poyker, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2013), in collaboration with Maxim Ananyev UCLA political science Ph.D. candidate: Economic Inequality in the Developing World: Measurement and Applications. Yang Yang, Ph.D. candidate in global economics and management (entered 2011): Transportation Infrastructure and Spatial Distribution of Firms and Industries (China). 2014-2015 Global Research Faculty Grant Recipients Leonardo Bursztyn, Assistant Professor of Global Economics and Management, in collaboration with Stefano Fiorin, UCLA Anderson Ph.D. Candidate, and Martin Kanz, World Bank: Understanding the Effect of Islamic Finance on Small Enterprises: Evidence from a Randomized Experiment Charles Corbett, Professor or Operations Management and Sustainability, and Felipe Caro, Associate Professor of Decisions Operations and Technology Management, in collaboration with Christian Blanco, UCLA Anderson Ph.D. Candidate: Water Footprinting and Disclosure in the Global 500 Firms (continuation of 2013-14 award) Christian Dippel, Assistant Professor of Global Economics and Management: Trade Integration, Manufacturing Competition, and Political Radicalization: German Evidence from 1987-2009" Sebastian Edwards, Distinguished Professor and Henry Ford Chair in International Management: The Importance of Contracts in Investment Decisions: Lessons from the Great Depression (continuation of 2013-14 award) Henry Friedman, Assistant Professor of Accounting: How Political, Institutional, and Cultural Factors Affect Capital Markets and Managerial Decisions (continuation of 2013-14 and 2012-13 awards) Noah Goldstein, Associate Professor of Management and Organizations, in collaboration with Ashley Angulo, UCLA Anderson Ph.D. Candidate, and Helen Colby, UCLA Anderson Post-Doctoral Scholar: To Understand How Global Charitable Organizations Can Better Manage Their Donation Campaigns to Optimize Efficiency and Effectiveness in the System by Better Understanding the Underlying Psychology of Prospective Donors and How They Respond to Different Types of Appeals Uday Karmarkar, Distinguished Professor and L.A. Times Chair in Technology and Strategy, and Vandana Mangal, Executive Director of Easton Technology Management Center and Research Director of Business and Information Technologies (BIT): BIT Global Research Project: The Adoption and Impact of New Information Technologies by Firms and Industries (continuation of 2013-14 and 2012-13 awards) Romain Wacziarg, Professor of Global Economics and Management: Ethnicity, Preferences and Socioeconomic Outcomes (continuation of 2013-14 award) Shi Zhang, Associate Professor of Marketing: Brand Stigmatization and Global Branding" 2014-2015 Global Research Doctoral Grant Recipients Andrea Di Miceli, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2011): Improving Healthcare Delivery by Myanmars Private Providers through a Social Franchising Network Aligning Incentives of Private Providers with Needs of the Population they Serve Stefano Fiorin, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2012): Speaking the Same Language: The Effect of Cultural Proximity on Loan Repayment (Indonesia) Vasily Korovkin, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2012): Social Norms and Peer Pressure as Determinants of Low Take-Up of Preventative Health Products: Case of Pakistan Shekhar Mittal, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2013): Fracking and Farmers of Rajasthan A Study of the Impact of a Positive and Temporary Income Surge on Spending and Investment Decisions of Farmers Yang Yang, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2011): The Effect of Firms Technology Upgrading through Machinery Imports 2013-2014 Global Research Faculty Grant Recipients Leonardo Bursztyn, Assistant Professor, Global Economics and Management; and co-authors Bruno Ferman, So Paulo School of Economics; Peter Koudijs, Stanford Graduate School of Business; and Ulrike Malmendier, UC Berkeley: "Experience and Investment - Field Experiments to Study Real World Investment Decisions in Brazil" Charles Corbett, Professor, Operations Management and Sustainability, and Felipe Caro, Associate Professor, Decisions Operations and Technology Management: "Carbon Footprinting and Marginal Abatement Cost Curves in Global Supply Chains: Collaboration with CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)" Christian Dippel, Assistant Professor, Global Economics and Management: "Using Labor Search Theory to Infer Colonizers' Motives from Colonial Careers" Sebastian Edwards, Distinguished Professor, Global Economics and Management: "The Importance of Contracts in Investment Decisions: Lessons from the Great Depression" Henry Friedman, Assistant Professor, Accounting: "How Political, Institutional, and Cultural Factors Affect Capital Markets and Managerial Decisions" (continuation of 2012-13 award) Paola Giuliano, Assistant Professor, and Nico Voigtlaender, Assistant Professor, Global Economics and Management: "Historical Determinants of Industrialization and Entrepreneurship: Evidence from India" Uday Karmarkar, Distinguished Professor, Decisions Operations and Technology Management, and Vandana Mangal, Executive Director, Easton Research Technology Leadership Program and Research Director, Business and Information Technologies (BIT): BIT Global Research Project: The Adoption, Implementation and Diffusion of New Information Technologies by Firms and Industries" (continuation of 2012-13 award) Romain Wacziarg, Professor, Global Economics and Management: "Ethnicity, Preferences and Socioeconomic Outcomes" Shi Zhang, Associate Professor, Marketing: "Consumer Attributions about Product Safety Incidents" 2013-2014 Global Research Doctoral Grant Recipients Alvaro Garcia Marin, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2009): "Export Quality and Product Markups" Vasily Korovkin, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2012); and co-author, Ali Hasanain, Assistant Professor, Lahore University of Management Sciences; Yasir Khan, Country Economist, International Growth Center, Pakistan; and Arman Rezaee, Ph.D. Candidate, UC San Diego: "The Effects of New Monitoring Technologies on Regulatory Compliance: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Pakistan" Michael Poyker, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2013) and Maxim Ananyev, Ph.D. Candidate, UCLA Department of Political Science (entered 2012): "Who Reaps Gains in Trade? International Trade and Inequality in Diverse Societies: Evidence from Africa" Yang Yang, Ph.D. Candidate, Global Economics and Management (entered 2011): "Analyzing the Dynamics of Product Quality in International Trade" 2012-2013 Global Research Faculty Grant Recipients Paola Giuliano, Assistant Professor, and Romain Wacziarg, Professor, Global Economics and Management: "Biofuels, Food Prices, and the Health of Babies - Focus Mexico" Mark Garmaise, Associate Professor, Finance: "Financial Ecosystems of Banks and Firms -Focus Peru" Leonardo Bursztyn, Assistant Professor, Global Economics and Management; Florian Ederer, Assistant Professor, Strategy; and Noam Yuchtman, Assistant Professor, Business and Public Policy, Hass School of Business, UC Berkeley: "Productivity and Prejudice - Based on Nationality" Henry Friedman, Assistant Professor, Accounting: "How Political, Institutional, and Cultural Factors Affect Capital Markets and Managerial Decisions" Nico Voigtlaender, Assistant Professor, Global Economics and Management, and Vasco Carvalho, Assistant Professor, Universitat Pompeu Farba, Barcelona : "The Rise of General Purpose Technologies" Charles Corbett, Professor, and Felipe Caro, Associate Professor, Decisions Operations and Technology Management: "Carbon Footprinting in Global Supply Chains" Jason Snyder, Assistant Professor, Strategy: "The African Slave Trade and the Present Day Business Environment" Christian Dippel, Assistant Professor, Global Economics and Management: "The Effects of a Large Stock to Civic and Political Leadership" Sebastian Edwards, Professor, Global Economics and Management: "Is Tanzania a Success Story? A Long Term Analysis" Uday Karmarkar, Professor, Decisions Operations and Technology Management, and Vandana Mangal, Executive Director, Easton Research Technology Leadership Program and Research Director, Business and Information Technologies (BIT): "BIT Global Research Project: The Adoption, Implementation and Diffusion of New Information Technologies by Firms." Institutional Determinants of Global Venture Capital (2017-18) Paul Momtaz, Ph.D. student in finance (entered 2017) Learn More How Much Does Your Boss Make? The Effects of Salary Comparisons (2016-17) Ricardo Perez-Truglia, Assistant Professor of Global Economics and Management Learn More Ethnicity, Preferences and Socioeconomic Outcomes (2014-15) Romain Wacziarg, Professor of Economics, Hans Hufschmid Chair in Management Learn More Explore Our Center Overview For Visitors campus tour maps & directions master calendar facility use For Companies recruit a student post a job consulting teams for GAP companies For the News Media media relations ucla anderson forecast anderson in the news faculty directory faculty expertise directory site index portal library UCLA feedback UC Regents
