Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Pamela C. Cosman Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Image and video compression for transmission over wireless, Internet or other telecommunications networks, image and video processing, computer vision, video quality evaluation. Professor Cosman is addressing a critical challenge for mobile video transmission: how to send video with high quality, in the face of noise, interference and limited bandwidth. As demand for streaming video and other multimedia grows, she says the goal is to design algorithms that allow for the most compression while still maintaining acceptable video quality. Cosman has funding from NSF, ONR, corporations and the UC Discovery Grant Program. She is involved with human observer experiments on packet loss visibility, cross-layer design problems optimizing algorithms across the application and physical layers, and video multiplexing algorithms. She is also involved in computer vision projects in the biological sciences, including ways to track and classify microscopic mutant worms. Cosman is particularly interested in engineering education, having participated on numerous advisory and steering committees to enhance educational excellence and boost the diversity of the Jacobs School's enrollment. Capsule Bio:Pamela Cosman joined UCSD in July 1995. She obtained her B.S. with Honor in Electrical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology in 1987, and her M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 1989 and 1993, respectively. She was an NSF postdoctoral fellow at Stanford University and a Visiting Professor at the University of Minnesota during 1993-1995. Since 1995, she has been with the faculty of the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at UCSD, where she is currently a Professor. She was the Director of the Center for Wireless Communications from 2006 to 2008.She served as Associate Dean for Students from 2013 to 2016. Dr. Cosman is the recipient of the ECE Departmental Graduate Teaching Award, a Career Award from the National Science Foundation, a Powell Faculty Fellowship, and a Globecom 2008 Best Paper Award. She was the Editor-in-Chief (2006-2009) of the IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, and an associate editor of several other journals. She is a member of Tau Beta Pi and Sigma Xi, and a Fellow of the IEEE. She is the author of over 150 papers and book chapters in the areas of image/video compression, image quality evaluation,and biomedical image processing. Email:pcosman@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0157Institute Affiliations:Center for Wireless Communications California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology, Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
