Jerry Xiao Heng Wang | Pure Mathematics | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Pure Mathematics home About Pure MathVisitor Directions What is Pure Math?What is Algebra? What is Analysis? What is Geometry? What is Number Theory? What is Topology? Department membersOfficers & Administration Faculty members Postdoctoral fellows & visitors Graduate Students Emeritus/Adjunct Programs and courses ResearchResearch areas Faculty awards News Colloquia Events Undergraduate studiesResearch Opportunities Undergraduate student awards Contact information Graduate studiesDegree completion procedures PhD comprehensive examination Course offerings/descriptions Application procedure and admissions Financial informationFinancial support Tuition fees Scholarship applications Housing information Other expenses Recent graduatesRecent MMath graduates Recent PhD graduates Graduate student awards Contact information - graduate studies FAQ Employment opportunities Visitor directions UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Pure Mathematics Pure Mathematics home About Pure Math Department members Programs and courses Research News Colloquia Events Information for Undergraduate studies Graduate studies Employment opportunities Visitor directions University COVID-19 update The University of Waterloo is constantly updating our mostFrequently Asked Questions. Questions about buildings and services? Visit the list of Modified Services. Please note: The University of Waterloo is closed for all events until further notice. Pure Mathematics Jerry Xiao Heng Wang Assistant Professor x46wang@uwaterloo.ca519-888-4567 ext. 35557Location:MC 5338Research interests:Algebraic number theory, arithmetic geometry, diophantine approximation Link to Profile:Jerry Xiao Heng WangLink to Personal Website or CV:https://www.math.uwaterloo.ca/~x46wGroup(s):Faculty Contacts by group Officers & Administration (8)Faculty (29)Visitors (15)Emeritus/Adjunct (14)Graduate Students (44) TOP Share Contact Info Pure Mathematics University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Departmental office: MC 5304 Phone: 519 888 4567 x33484 Fax: 519 725 0160 Email: puremath@uwaterloo.ca Pure Mathematics home Provide website feedback PDF files require Adobe Acrobat Reader University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
