Faculty | UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Faculty | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content Give to Ziman Subscribe UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate > Faculty Faculty Faculty The Ziman Center was established to create and administer UCLA's activities surrounding the topic of real estate. To advance this mandate, the Center has built a community of leading scholars who undertake real estate-related research. The Affiliated Faculty and Fellows join the Center from departments throughout the UCLA campus, including management, economics, law, public policy, urban planning, engineering, architecture and geography, and they generate high-quality, publishable research through the Ziman Center's Working Papers series. In 2005, the Ziman Center established the Faculty Research Fellows program to facilitate the publication of our faculty's research. The Ziman Center funds research by faculty throughout UCLA. Faculty Teaching Faculty Affiliated Faculty & Fellows Visiting Fellows Lance Bocarsly Lecturer in Law UCLA School of Law Learn More Gonzalo Freixes Adjunct Professor of Accounting; Associate Dean, Fully Employed MBA ProgramUCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Stuart Gabriel Arden Realty Chair, Professor of Finance and Director, UCLA Ziman CenterUCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Andrew David Gross Lecturer in Affordable Housing Finance and Development UCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Paul Habibi Lecturer in Finance and Real Estate UCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Mark S. Karlan Lecturer in Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Tom Muller Lecturer in Law UCLA School of Law Learn More M. Kathleen Smalley Lecturer in Law and Real Estate UCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Kirk J. Stark Barrall Family Professor of Tax Law and Policy UCLA School of Law Learn More Eric Sussman Adjunct Professor, Accounting, Finance and Real Estate UCLA Anderson School of Management Learn More Faculty Research Fellows Name Position School Omar Isaac Asensio Postdoctoral Research Fellow UCLA IoES John Cotter Associate Professor University College Dublin Visiting Scholar UCLA Anderson School of Management Andrea Eisfeldt Associate Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Pablo D. Fajgelbaum Assistant Professor UCLA Department of Economics Stuart A. Gabriel Arden Realty Chair and Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Mark Garmaise Associate Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management W. Walker Hanlon Assistant Professor UCLA Department of Economics Owen Hearey Ph.D. Candidate UCLA Department of Economics Kyle F. Herkenhoff Ph.D. Candidate UCLA Department of Economics Matthew E. Kahn Professor UCLA IoES, Dept. of Economics, Dept. of Public Policy, UCLA Anderson and UCLA Law Edward Kung Assistant Professor UCLA Department of Economics Michael Lens Assistant Professor, Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Richard Roll Professor and Japan Alumni Chair in Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Michael A. Stoll Chair, Department of Public Policy Professor of Public Policy and Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Rui Wang Assistant Professor UCLA School of Public Affairs Affiliated Faculty Name Position School Andrew Atkeson Stanley M. Zimmerman Professor of Economics and Finance Director of Business Economics Program UCLA Department of Economics Stuart Banner Norman Abrams Professor of Law UCLA School of Law Gary Blasi Professor of Law UCLA School of Law Leah P. Boustan Associate Professor UCLA Department of Economics Moshe Bushinsky Professor UCLA Department of Economics Stephen D. Cauley Lecturer UCLA Anderson School of Management William A. V. Clark Professor UCLA Department of Geography Charles Corbett Joseph Jacobs Term Chair in Entrepreneurial Studies and Professor UCLA Anderson School of Management Dora L. Costa Professor UCLA Department of Economics John Cotter Associate Professor, University College Dublin, Visiting Scholar UCLA Anderson School of Management Randall Crane Professor of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Dana Cuff Professor of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs J.R. DeShazo Director, Luskin Center for Innovation Professor of Public Policy and Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Joseph W. Doherty Director, Empirical Research Group UCLA School of Law Matthew P. Drennan Visiting Professor, Department of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Stuart A. Gabriel Arden Realty Chair and Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Mark Garmaise Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Mark Grinblatt Japan Alumni Chair in International Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Susanna Hecht Professor of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Matthew E. Kahn Professor UCLA IoES, Dept. of Economics, Dept. of Public Policy, UCLA Anderson and UCLA Law Edward E. Leamer Professor, Chauncey J. Medberry Chair in Management UCLA Anderson School of Managemen Francis Longstaff Allstate Professor of Insurance and Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Anastasia Loukaitou-Sideris Allstate Professor of Insurance and Finance Professor of Urban Planning Hanno Lustig Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Vinit Mukhija Associate Professor and Vice Chair of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Paul Ong Professor of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Richard Roll Professor and Japan Alumni Chair in Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Richard Sander Professor of Law UCLA School of Law Eduardo Schwartz California Chair in Real Estate and Land Economics UCLA Anderson School of Management Allen J. Scott Distinguished Professor UCLA Department of Geography Donald Shoup Professor of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Suzanne Shu Assistant Professor of Marketing UCLA Anderson School of Management Michael A. Stoll Chair, Department of Public Policy Professor of Public Policy and Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Avandhar Subrahmanyam Allstate Professor of Insurance and Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Walter Torous Professor Emeritus UCLA Anderson School of Management John Wallace Professor UCLA Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Rui Wang Assistant Professor UCLA School of Public Affairs Pierre-Olivier Weill Assistant Professor UCLA Department of Economics Adam Winkler Professor of Law UCLA School of Law William R. Zame Distinguished Professor UCLA Department of Economics Jonathan M. Zasloff Professor of Law UCLA School of Law Eric M. Zolt Professor of Law UCLA School of Law Name Position School Xudong An Senior Specialist II Federal Reserve Bank, Philadelphia John Cotter Professor in Finance, Chair in Quantitative Finance Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School University College Dublin Yongheng Deng Provost's Chair, Professor of Real Estate and Finance, Director, Institute of Real Estate Studies National University of Singapore (NUS) Roni Golan UCLA Gilbert Program Postdoctoral Fellow Technion - Israel Institute of Technology Chandler Lutz Assistant Professor Copenhagen Business School, Denmark Stephen D. Oliner UCLA Gilbert Program Senior Fellow, Resident Scholar American Enterprise Institute (AEI) Ryan K. Vaughn, Ph.D. Vice President, Quantitative Operations Manager Bank of America Faculty Expertise Guide Faculty Member Title & Area Expertise A B Stuart Banner Professor UCLA School of Law Property, American legal history, capital punishment Gary Blasi Professor UCLA School of Law Regulation of substandard housing, homelessness Leah P. Boustan Associate Professor UCLA Department of Economics Economic history, modern labor, urban economics Moshe Buchinsky Professor UCLA Department of Economics Economics Taimie L. Bryant Professor UCLA School of Law Nonprofit organizations, animal law, property law C Ann E. Carlson Professor UCLA School of Law; Co-Director Frank G. Wells Environmental Law Clinic; Founding Faculty Member UCLA Public Interest Law and Policy Program Faculty Member UCLA Institute of the Environment Environmental law and policy, standing, federalism, preemption, the role social norms play in affecting environmentally cooperative behavior Stephen Day Cauley Lecturer UCLA Anderson School of Management; Project Manager, Ziman/CRSP REIT Data Series Real estate, California, housing market, home valuation William A. V. Clark Professor UCLA Department of Geography U.S. metropolitan areas, residential mobility and migration, demographic change Charles Corbett Professor UCLA Anderson School of Management Joseph Jacobs Term Chair in Entrepreneurial Studies Environmental issues in management, ISO 9000 and 14000 Certification, logistics, manufacturing, operations management, operations research, supply chain management Dora L. Costa Professor UCLA Department of Economics Labor economics, demography, health John Cotter Associate Professor University College Dublin; Visiting Scholar UCLA Anderson School of Management Asset pricing, risk management, volatility in real estate investment markets, volatility modeling of US house prices Randall Crane Professor UCLA School of Public Affairs; Associate Director UCLA Institute of Transportation Studies Urbanization, planning, development challenges in a globalizing world Dana Cuff Professor UCLA School Department of Architecture and Urban Design Director cityLAB-UCLA Urban design, affordable housing, the politics of place, infrastructure, postsuburban Los Angeles, and new architectural formulations of sustainability D J.R. DeShazo Professor UCLA School of Public Policy; Director Luskin Center for Innovation Environmental economics and policy, local public finance, urban infrastructure and protected areas, political economy, financial management of public services Joseph W. Doherty Director Empirical Research Group UCLA School of Law Bankruptcy, legal aid, administrative law, pollution prevention, tax policy, gay rights, the living wage, campaign finance disclosure and international criminal law Matthew P. Drennan Visiting Professor UCLA Department of Urban Planning The evolving structure of national economic activity as it is manifested in the transformation of metropolitan economies E F Susan Fletcher French Professor UCLA School of Law Wills, trusts, future interests, servitudes (easements and covenants) and common interest communities Gonzalo Freixes Associate Dean Fully Employed MBA and Executive MBA Programs Lecturer UCLA Anderson School of Management Business law, taxation, business ethics, international law and taxation, international trade, Latin America, law, political and legal strategy, start-up companies G Stuart A. Gabriel Arden Realty Chair UCLA Anderson School of Management; Director UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Real estate finance and economics, housing and mortgage markets, urban and regional economics, macroeconomics Mark J. Garmaise Professor UCLA Anderson School of Management Corporate finance, real estate, financial contracting, banking, entrepreneurship, venture capital Robert Geske Associate Professor UCLA Anderson School of Management Derivatives, asset pricing, bond markets, credit risk, credit derivatives, hedging strategies, interest rates, volatility Mark Grinblatt J. Clayburn LaForce Chair UCLA Anderson School of Management Asset Pricing, bond markets, capital budgeting, derivatives, fixed-income securities, index funds, mutual funds, portfolio performance evaluation, securities exchange commission, securities Jane Guerin Lecturer UCLA Anderson School of Management Mergers and acquisitions, business law, contracts, bankruptcy, entrepreneurship, non-profit organizations H Paul Habibi Lecturer UCLA Anderson School of Management Real estate investment and development, student field studies, multi-family and mixed-use real estate projects, accounting Sean B. Hecht Executive Director UCLA Environmental Law Center at UCLA School of Law; Co-Director Frank G. Wells Environmental Law Clinic; Director Evan Frankel Law and Policy Program Governance, regulation, environmental policy, public natural resources law and policy Susanna Hecht Professor of Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Climate change adaptation, mitigation and loger term rethinking of longer term resilience strategies I J K Matthew E. Kahn Professor UCLA Institute of the Environment, UCLA Department of Economics, UCLA Department of Public Policy Director of Research UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Environmental and urban issues, costs and benefits of environmental regulation, international environmental issues, costs of urbanization, relationship between international trade and environmental quality L Edward E. Leamer Chauncey J. Medberry Chair UCLA Anderson School of Management Director, UCLA Anderson Forecast Asia-Pacific, capital markets, China, Consumer Price Index, economic forecasting, emerging markets, employment, Europe, exchange rates, Federal Reserve, global economies, inflation, interest rates, International Monetary Fund, Mexico, monetary policy, NAFTA, poverty, real estate, U.S. economy Francis A. Longstaff Allstate Professor of Insurance and Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Fixed income markets and term structure theory, derivative markets and valuation theory, credit risk, computational finance, liquidity and its effects on prices and markets, the role of arbitrage in financial markets Anastasia Loukaitou-Sideris Professor and Department Chair UCLA Department of Urban Planning Public environment of cities, physical representation, aesthetics, social meaning, impact on the urban resident Hanno Lustig Professor of Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Asset pricing, macroeconomics, international finance M Vinit Mukhija Associate Professor UCLA Department of Urban Planning Affordable housing in developing countries, Third World-like housing conditions in the U.S. Stephen R. Munzer Professor UCLA School of Law Contracts, Property, legal philosophy and biotechnology, intellectual property, biotechnology, and body modification N O Paul Ong Professor UCLA Department of Urban Planning, UCLA Department of Social Welfare, UCLA Department of Asian American Studies Foreclosures, fair housing, and spatial inequality P Q R Ryan Ratcliff Economist UCLA Anderson Forecast Integrating financial forecasts into macroeconomic forecasting Richard Roll Joel Fried Chair in Applied Finance UCLA Anderson School of Management Arbitrage pricing theory, asset pricing, bond markets, derivatives, efficient markets, securities, hedging strategies, investment theory, interest rates, mutual funds, portfolio management, Securities Exchange Commission, stock market analysis, banking S Richard H. Sander Professor UCLA School of Law; Director Empirical Research Group (ERG) at the UCLA School of Law Founding Faculty, UCLA Program in Public Interest Law and Policy Principal Investigator, Project SEAPHE Social and economic inequality, affirmative action, housing segregation, living wages, minimum wages, legal market, legal profession, legal education and academic support Eduardo Schwartz California Chair in Real Estate and Land Economics UCLA Anderson School of Management Asset pricing, bond markets, commodities, future markets, natural resources, oil and gas industry, Latin America, derivatives, fixed-income securities, mortgage-backed securities Allen J. Scott Distinguished Professor UCLA School of Public Policy, UCLA Department of Geography Industrialization, urbanization, regional development Donald Shoup Professor UCLA Department of Urban Planning Parking as a key link between transportation and land use, with important consequences for cities, the economy, and the environment Suzanne Shu Assistant Professor UCLA Anderson School of Management Behavioral decision theory, self-control, procrastination Kirk J. Stark Vice Dean and Professor UCLA School of Law Federal income taxation, taxation & distributive justice, property, tax policy, public finance, fiscal responsibilities among federal, state and local governments Michael Stoll Chair Department of Public Policy Professor of Public Policy and Urban Planning UCLA School of Public Affairs Labor market consequences of mass incarceration, the benefits and costs of the prison boom, the reasons for the prison boom in the U.S., the social and economic consequences of urban sprawl Avandhar Subrahmanyam Goldyne and Irwin Hearch Chair in Money and Banking UCLA Anderson School of Management Asset pricing, behavioral finance, derivatives, stock exchange trading mechanisms, market liquidity Eric Sussman Senior Lecturer, UCLA Anderson School of Management Auditing, financial statement analysis, fraud detection, personal finance, real estate, asset valuation, shareholder litigation, cost evaluation, measurement T Walter Torous Lee and Seymour Graff Professor and Finance Area Chair UCLA Anderson School of Management; Founding Director Richard S. Ziman Center for Real Estate Pricing of financial instruments (options, future, risky debt, mortgages), reorganization of financially distressed firms, statistical issues in finance U V W John Wallace Professor UCLA Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Earthquake engineering, performance and behavior of reinforced concrete structures Rui Wang Assistant Professor UCLA School of Public Affairs Urban transportation and environmental policies Pierre-Olivier Weill Associate Professor UCLA Department of Economics Asset pricing, macroeconomics Adam Winkler Professor UCLA School of Law American constitutional law X Y Z William R. Zame Distinguished Professor Economics & Mathematics Economic theory, mathematical economics, experimental economics, economic geography Jonathan Zasloff Professor UCLA School of Law The influence of lawyers and legalism in US external relations, the response of public institutions to social problems, the role of ideology in framing policy responses Eric M. Zolt Michael H. Schill Distinguished Professor of Law UCLA School of Law Taxation and development, comparative tax policy, transition to market economy Give to Ziman Events Contact Us UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate Overview Events Fannie Mae-UCLA Ziman Symposium About Us Meet Our Staff Board Leadership Faculty Research UCLA Gilbert Program in Real Estate, Finance and Urban Economics UCLA Economic Letter UCLA Affordable Housing Policy Brief Working Papers Conference on Housing, Financial Markets & Monetary Policy Data Mortgage Default Risk Index (MDRI) CRSP/Ziman REIT Data Series Student Development Corporate Concierge Recruiting Real Estate Challenges Awards & Fellowships Peter Bren Fellows in Entrepreneurial Real Estate Howard and Irene Levine Fellows Tracy Family UCLA Ziman Center Fellowship Resources Courses Steven C. Gordon Real Estate Student Endowment Get Involved Howard and Irene Levine Program in Housing and Social Responsibility Howard and Irene Levine Affordable Housing Development Program Howard J. Levine Distinguished Lecture on Business Ethics & Social Responsibility UCLA Distinguished Speaker Series in Affordable Housing Housing as Health Care Initiative Alumni (UCLA REAG) In The News Ziman Campaign For Visitors campus tour maps & directions master calendar facility use For Companies recruit a student post a job consulting teams for GAP companies For the News Media media relations ucla anderson forecast anderson in the news faculty directory faculty expertise directory site index portal library UCLA feedback UC Regents
