Faculty & Research | UCLA Anderson School of Management Skip to main content Apply For Companies Give Home > Centers > Center for Global Management > Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Research Advancing the global research and course development efforts of UCLA Anderson faculty and students is at the core of the Center for Global Managements mission. Research grants, academic conferences, a global management specialization curriculum and support of the field study programs across MBA programs are central to accomplishing the CGM's mission. Faculty and Doctoral At a research university such as UCLA, a highly effective means of increasing the global content of courses comes through support ofthe global research of faculty and Ph.D. and MBA students. The Center for Global Management provides seed funding to supportUCLA Anderson faculty and doctoral students in developing global research and courses with business and management relevance that advance global management thinking and address global management and economic issues, internationalrelations or issues of global/regional cooperation. View our award winning faculty and doctoral students Institutional Determinants of Global Venture Capital (2017-18) Paul Momtaz, Ph.D. student in finance (entered 2017) Learn More How Much Does Your Boss Make? The Effects of Salary Comparisons (2016-17) Ricardo Perez-Truglia, Assistant Professor of Global Economics and Management Learn More Ethnicity, Preferences and Socioeconomic Outcomes (2014-15) Romain Wacziarg, Professor of Economics, Hans Hufschmid Chair in Management Learn More Global Access Program TheGlobal Access Program (GAP)is a six-month mandatory field study and the capstone expereince for the FEMBA program. It is a real-world consulting experience that challenges future MBAs to prove their ability to execute and bring structure to a company's international market expansion. All GAP projects carry a technology focus. Non-technology companies and not-for-profit organizations qualify based on how they plan to leverage technology for strategic communication or to implement their programs. Each team must write an investment-quality business plan, backed by a tremendous amount of primary and secondary research, to present to industry experts and investors at the end of the program in December each year. Learn More Applied Management Research The Applied Management Research (AMR) prorgam is the field study requirement for the full-time MBA program and serves as the capstone project for second-year students. The Center for Global Management supports projects that focus on global social enterprise and community impact to broaden students' awareness of issues facing entrepreneurial development within emerging markets. Learn more MBA Research Assistants To strengthen student engagement in the intellectual life of the school and faculty, in addition to supporting UCLA Anderson Ph.D. students, the CGM funds MBA students to serve as research assistants to work with faculty on their global research projects, case studies and course development, as well as to support UCLA Anderson's executive programs abroad. Learn More MEET OUR ADVISORY BOARD ENGAGE WITH THE CENTER SUPPORT THE CENTER Center for Global Management Overview Programs Global Degree Immersion & Specialization Specialization in Global Management Global Immersion Courses FEMBA and EMBA International Exchange Career and Personal Development Global Management Seminars for Visiting Students Faculty & Research Faculty and Doctoral Faculty in the News Global Access Program (GAP) Applied Management Research (AMR) MBA Research Assistants Events Conferences Wilbur K. Woo Greater China Business Conference Overview Latin American Business Conference Other Global Conferences Academic and Research Conferences Global Management Speaker & Lecture Series Global Business & Policy Forums Robertson Lecture Series on Global Business Leadership Brown Bag Luncheons and Dinners for Eight External Collaborative Partnerships World Today Discussion Series About The CGM Video Gallery Faculty For Visitors campus tour maps & directions master calendar facility use For Companies recruit a student post a job consulting teams for GAP companies For the News Media media relations ucla anderson forecast anderson in the news faculty directory faculty expertise directory site index portal library UCLA feedback UC Regents
