Fellowships and Assistantships | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search Mechanical Engineering Giving About Facts and Figures Educational Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes Facilities Faculty/Staff Resources Message from the Chair News Open Positions Graduate Masters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Courses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Alumni ME Advisory Board Faculty and Staff Research Research Centers & Laboratories Undergraduate Research William Maxwell Reed Seminar Series Research Areas Mechanical Engineering Giving About GraduateMasters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate People Research Fellowships and Assistantships Graduate Student Funding Financial aid for international graduate students is provided primarily by the department. This aid is provided as Research Assistantships (RAs) and Teaching Assistantships (TAs). Research assistants are chosen by individual professors who have openings in their research programs. RAs are expected to contribute to the research effort in accordance with the students experience level andthe specific responsibilities defined by the funding professor. In addition to being a source of financial aid, a research assistantship is an opportunity to gain hands-on research experience that can form the basis of a graduate thesis. There is no formal application process for research assistantships, but all mechanical engineering professors have access to the files of graduate school applicantsand may choose to contact you about an RA position. Alternately, you may directly contact any professor whose research interests you. Short biographical sketches of faculty members, including their research interests and contact information, are available here. Teaching assistants are chosen by the department based on the needs of the course schedule for a given semester and the input of concerned faculty members. TAs are expected to grade assignments, be available to answer questions from students in the classand otherwise assist the professor in class preparations. Teaching assistantships are typically given on a semester-by-semester basisand students may be both a TA and an RA over the course of a given academic year. Like research assistantships, there is no formal application process for a teaching assistantship. However, if you are a new Ph.D. student and are interested in a teaching assistantship, please contact Dr. Karaca, director of graduate studies. There is no set timetable for the awarding of RAs and TAs. These decisions are made on a continuous basis. If you are offered an assistantship, you will be notified immediately. At the university level, there is no institutional financial aid designated for international students. For further assistance, you may contact the Office of International Students and Scholars at (859) 257-2755, or 112 Bradley Hall, Lexington, KY 40506-0058. You might also contact the International Affairs Office at (859) 257-4067, or 311 Bradley Hall, Lexington, KY 40506-0058. The International Affairs Office also has a website here. Other possible sources of financial support are fellowships granted from outside the university. The eligibility of international students for these awards is determined by the granting organization. A regularly updated (but not exhaustive) list of outside fellowship opportunities is located on the prospective graduate student website under the Fellowships, Assistantships, and Support Funding topic. Mechanical Engineering Fellowships TVA Graduate Fellowship One fellowship is available for an outstanding graduate student applying to the UK ME graduate program (Ph.D. or thesis-option Masters). The award is $18,000 for one year (12 months). The recipient of the fellowship shall engage in power engineering research with a major professor who is a full-time member of the Mechanical Engineering Department. If the student desires a teaching experience, that is allowable under this fellowship. Criteria for Eligibility Eligible students are new Ph.D. students applying to the graduate program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Kentucky. Candidates must have an undergraduate grade point average of 3.5 or higher; likewise, candidates must have a grade point average of 3.5 or higher for any graduate work. Nomination Process Candidates for the TVA Graduate Fellowship must be nominated by an ME faculty member or by one of the four technical area committees of the Mechanical Engineering Department. In the following order, nomination packages must include: a letter of nomination from the students undergraduate faculty advisor, elaborating on special qualifications of the candidate (previous scholarships, honors and awards, research papers, publications, etc.); resume; letters of recommendation from at least three current or former professors; copies of transcripts from all schools attended; copies of GRE and TOEFL (if applicable) scores. Selection Process The final ranking of the fellowship will be determined by the Graduate Studies Committee in consultation with the TVA professor after reviewing the nomination packages. Based on the ranking, the Dean of Engineering will then make and approve the final selection. Due Date for Nominations: TBA Please submit applications to: Claire Heaney 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, Kentucky 40506-0503 Harper Industries Incorporated Graduate Fellowship One fellowship is available for an outstanding graduate student applying to the UK ME graduate program (Ph.D. or thesis-option Masters). The award is $18,000 for one year (12 months). If the student desires a teaching experience, that is allowable under this fellowship. Criteria for Eligibility Eligible students are new Ph.D. students applying to the graduate program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Kentucky. Candidates must have an undergraduate grade point average of 3.5 or higher; likewise, candidates must have a grade point average of 3.5 or higher for any graduate work. Nomination Process Candidates for the Harper Industries Fellowship must be nominated by an ME faculty member or by one of the four technical area committees of the Department of Mechanical Engineering. In the following order, nomination packages must include: a letter of nomination from the students undergraduate faculty advisor, elaborating on special qualifications of the candidate (previous scholarships, honors and awards, research papers, publications, etc.) resume letters of recommendation from at least three current or former professors copies of transcripts from all schools attended copies of GRE and TOEFL (if applicable) scores Selection Process The recipient of the fellowship will be determined by the Graduate Studies Committee after reviewing the nomination packages. Due Date for Nominations: January 15th Please submit applications to: Claire Heaney 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, Kentucky 40506-0503 Click here for other fellowships provided by the UK Graduate School Department of Mechanical Engineering 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, KY 40506-0503 Phone: (859) 257-6336 Fax: (859) 257-3304 University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
