Capstone Design | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search Mechanical Engineering Giving About Facts and Figures Educational Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes Facilities Faculty/Staff Resources Message from the Chair News Open Positions Graduate Masters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Courses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Alumni ME Advisory Board Faculty and Staff Research Research Centers & Laboratories Undergraduate Research William Maxwell Reed Seminar Series Research Areas Mechanical Engineering Giving About Graduate UndergraduateCourses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Research Capstone Design The mechanical engineering curriculum includesa Capstone Design project. It isa two-semester sequence, ME 411 and 412. The courses include lectures and assigned work on the major topics in design. Students are organized into teams of four to six students, and each team is assigned a project for the two-semester sequence. Each team is expected to organize and carry out the design tasks. Faculty or industry sponsors serving as advisors. Projects: We are seeking proposals for projects to assign to the student teams. Projects need to allow substantial design and conceptualization potential, not merely design changes of scale or duplication of existing systems. It must be possible to complete them within the two-semester time-frame. Based on past experience, we have found three types of projects to be effective: Industry projects: Industry representatives would define the project requirementsand provide guidance to the student team during the semester. These projects are often those which the company needs to have completed, but either does not have the resources to complete, or is willing to treat them as back-burner needs. Sometimes the project can provide an opportunity for a fresh look at efforts underway within the company. The company needs to identify a resource person within the firm to answer student questions, meet with the student team periodically for progress reviewsand attend the final presentation at the end of the semester. We address any requirements for confidentiality with industry sponsors when needed. (You will note that information on industry projects on the website is limited for this reason.) Student Extra-Curricular Projects: Our students are involved in a number of extra-curricular projects such as the Solar Car, Big Blue, SAE Formula Car, Mini-Bajaand Weightless Wildcats Zero-G experiments. There are often specific design efforts that can be carved out of these projects for the Capstone design teams. These projects also have opportunities for industry participation or sponsorship. Student Design Competitions: There are several engineering organizations that sponsor student design competitions in addition to those such as the solar car or Mini-Baja. For example, ASME develops a new contest each year, requiring novel approaches to design and build a device to meet specific requirements. Two recent contests required students to: (1) develop a device to purify water with only human powerand (2) develop a device to separate recyclable containers. The AIAA Design-Build-Fly competition is another popular contest for our students. These projects also have opportunities for industry participation or sponsorship. Recent Projects: During a typical year, approximately 20-30 projects are completed during Capstone Design. Of these, about 1/2 are industry projects and the remainder are extracurricular and student design competitions.Example project results are illustrated below (note again that industry projects are not included here due to confidentiality considerations): E-Day-Poster ME-412-Poster-Presentation ME412_Group-B_EDay-Presentation ME412-Team-D-E-Day-Poster ME-412-E-Day-Poster-Group-G Team-1-Lexmark Team-11-E-Day-Poster How you can help? We are seeking brief proposals for possible projects for the upcoming academic year. All we need is a paragraph or two describing the project requirements. We will contact potential sponsors for any needed clarification. If the project seems to be a good fit, we will present it with other projects to student teams in late August. Sponsors will be contacted by the students during the year as they define a project plan and carry out the work. See an overview of assigned projects: 2017 fall projects-assigned We do not require a financial contribution to the projects. If there are substantial hardware or equipment needs, these are provided by the sponsor. Financial support is always appreciated. If you are interested, please send a brief paragraph describing your project by August 10for the fall semester and January 10 for the spring semester tothe following: David Herrin 155 Ralph G. Anderson Building University of Kentucky Lexington, KY 40506-0503 859-218-0638 david.herrin@uky.edu Department of Mechanical Engineering 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, KY 40506-0503 Phone: (859) 257-6336 Fax: (859) 257-3304 University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
