Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering | University of Kentucky College of Engineering Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content myUK Toggle navigation Students Undergraduate First-Year Engineering Program Degree Programs Visit Us How to Apply Next Steps for Admitted Students Scholarships and Financial Aid Graduate Studies International Programs Online Programs K-12 Outreach Academic Enhancements Living Learning Program Certificates and Minors Undergraduate Research Engineering Scholars Programs SEAM Honors (Engr/Mgt) Engineering/MBA Dual Degree University Scholars Program Student Success Student Services Career Development Internships and Co-ops Diversity and Inclusivity Student Organizations Mentoring Programs Elbert C. Ray eStudio / Tutoring Science and Engineering Library Maker Spaces Student Resources Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Research Research About Research Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Industry Relations and Corporate Engagement Research Resources Faculty and Research Staff Research Centers, Institutes, and Consortia Center for Aluminum Technology Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering Electron Microscopy Center Kentucky Transportation Center Institute of Research for Technology Development True Lean Institute for Sustainable Manufacturing Vibro-Acoustics Consortium Power and Energy Institute of Kentucky (PEIK) Unmanned Systems Research Consortium (USRC) Graduate Studies Why UK? Degree Programs and Certificates Online Programs Graduate Admissions Financial Support Directors of Graduate Studies Resources Alumni About Us UKEAA Giving Recognition Societies Hall of Distinction Bricks Stay Connected Contact Us Industry Meet Our Experts Talent Pipeline Research and Development Get Involved Support the College Wildcat Cage Competition About About Us Meet the Dean Our Strategy Diversity and Inclusivity Administrative Offices Engineering Facilities Our History K-12 Outreach Accreditation Open Faculty Lines Faculty and Staff Resources Stay Connected Faculty Directory Staff Directory News Events Publications Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube myUK Search Mechanical Engineering Giving About Facts and Figures Educational Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes Facilities Faculty/Staff Resources Message from the Chair News Open Positions Graduate Masters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate Courses Capstone Design Certificates Student Resources People Alumni ME Advisory Board Faculty and Staff Research Research Centers & Laboratories Undergraduate Research William Maxwell Reed Seminar Series Research Areas Mechanical Engineering Giving About GraduateMasters in Mechanical Engineering Program Student Forms Online Manufacturing Systems Engineering Our Researchers Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Graduate Certificates Fellowships and Assistantships Apply to the Graduate Program Resources for Current Graduate Students Undergraduate People Research Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering Admission fees waved for domestic students with a 3.5 GPA (Contact Claire Heaney for a fee waiver). Guaranteed funding for Ph.D. students for five years. The Ph.D. degree is a research degree granted on the basis of broad knowledge of mechanical engineering and in-depth study in a specific area leading to a dissertation reflecting original work by the doctoral candidate. To obtain a Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering, in addition to meeting the general requirements of The Graduate School, a student must: Earn 36 graduate credit hours taken at the University of Kentucky while in graduate standing. Alternatively, those holding a non-UK M.S. may satisfy this requirement by earning 18 graduate credit hours at UK. Satisfy the mathematics requirement. The mathematics requirement for the Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering may be satisfied by completing two math-related courses with a grade of B or better in each. A list of acceptable courses is maintained by the director of graduate studies. Pass the Ph.D. Preliminary Examination. The Preliminary Examination is a written examination and shall satisfy the written portion of the Qualifying Examination required by The Graduate School. This examination tests the students knowledge in the field of mechanical engineering. This is a uniform examination that is required in three subject areas. For the Ph.D. preliminary examination, a doctoral student may select any of the available technical areas as a major field (two of the three subject areas should be from the students chosen major field). A list of current technical areas, subject areasand various courses under each subject area is maintained by the director of graduate studies. Pass the Qualifying Examination. This examination evaluates the soundness of the students proposed doctoral dissertation research. A prospectus prepared by the student and submitted to the students advisory committee is required. Only those who have passed the preliminary examination and have satisfied the doctoral mathematics requirement may sit for this examination. Present and satisfactorily defend the dissertation. For a more detailed description of these requirements, contact the director of graduate studies. Graduate Bulletin Department Chair Michael Renfro, Ph.D. (859) 257-6336 x80643 Director of Graduate Studies Alexandre Martin, Ph.D., P.E. (859) 257-4462 Student Affairs Officer I Claire Heaney (859) 218-0611 Department of Mechanical Engineering 151 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington, KY 40506-0503 Phone: (859) 257-6336 Fax: (859) 257-3304 University of Kentucky College of Engineering University of Kentucky College of Engineering 351 Ralph G. Anderson Building Lexington KY 40506-0503 (859) 257-1687 Students How to Apply: Undergraduate How to Apply: Graduate Visit Us Internships & Co-ops Student Organizations Research Industry Departments Biomedical Engineering Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Computer Science Electrical & Computer Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mining Engineering Paducah Campus Engage with the College Alumni/Giving Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 2020 University of Kentucky | An Equal Opportunity University | Accreditation | Directory | Contact University of Kentucky
