Nicholas A. Bloom | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Nicholas A. Bloom In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty Nicholas A. Bloom Nicholas A. Bloom Professor (by courtesy), EconomicsContact Info+1 (650) 725-7836Email CVPersonal Website NicholasA.BloomProfessor of Economics (by courtesy)Professor of Economics, School of Humanities and SciencesSenior Fellow, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy ResearchAcademic Area:EconomicsResearch StatementNick Bloom's research interests focus on measuring and explaining management practices across firms and countries. He has been collecting data from thousands of manufacturing firms, retailers, schools and hospitals across countries, to develop a quantitative basis for management research. Recently he has also been running management field experiments in India to identify clearly causal links between management and performance. A second area of research is on the causes and consequences of uncertainty, arising from events such as the credit crunch, the 9/11 terrorist attack and the Cuban Missile crisis. He also works on innovation and IT, examining factors that effect this such as tax, trade and regulation.BioNick Bloom is a Professor in the department of economics and Professor, by courtesy, at the Graduate School of Business. He is also the Co-Director of the Productivity, Innovation and Entrepreneurship program at the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), and a fellow of the Centre for Economic Performance, and the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. Nick was an undergraduate in Cambridge, a masters student at Oxford, and a PhD student at University College London. While completing his PhD he worked part-time at the Institute for Fiscal Studies, a London based tax think-tank. After completing his PhD Nick worked as a business tax policy advisor to the UK Treasury, and then joined McKinsey & Company as a management consultant. In 2003 he moved to the London School of Economics to focus on research, before joining Stanford University in 2005. Professor Blooms research focuses on measuring and explaining management practices. He has been working with McKinsey & Company as part of a long-run effort to collect management data from over 10,000 firms across industries and countries. The aim is to build an empirical basis for understanding what factors drive differences in management practices across regions, industries and countries, and how this determines firm and national performance. More recently he has also been working with Accenture on running management experiments. He also works on understanding the impacts of large uncertainty shockssuch as the credit crunch, the 9/11 terrorist attacks and the Cuban Missile crisison the US economy, for which he won the Frisch Medal in 2010. Nick lives on Stanford campus with his wife and three children. As a born and bred Londoner, married to a Scottish wife, with kids attending US schools, he lives in a multi-lingual English household.Academic DegreesPhD, University College London, 2001Masters of Philosophy, Oxford University, St. Peters College, 1996BA, Cambridge University, Fitzwilliam College, 1994Academic AppointmentsAt Stanford since 2005.Publications Journal Articles Economic Uncertainty Before and During the COVID-19 Pandemic Dave Altig, Scott R. Baker, Jose Maria Barrero, Nicholas A. Bloom, Philip Bunn, Scarlet Chen, Steven J. Davis, Julia Leather, Brent H. Meyer, Emil Mihaylov, Paul Mizen, Nicholas B. Parker, Thomas Renault, Pawel Smietanka, Greg Thwaites. Journal of Public Economics. November 2020, Vol. 191. Firm Performance and Macro Forecast Accuracy Mari Tanaka, Nicholas A. Bloom, Joel M. David, Maiko Koga. Journal of Monetary Economics. October 2020, Vol. 114, Pages 2641. Healthy Business? Managerial Education and Management in Health Care Nicholas A. Bloom, Renata Lemos, Raffaella Sadun, John Van Reenen. Review of Economics & Statistics. July 2020, Vol. 102, Issue 3, Pages 506517. Are Ideas Getting Harder to Find? Nicholas A. Bloom, Charles I. Jones, John Van Reenen, Michael Webb. American Economic Review. April 2020, Vol. 110, Issue 4, Pages 11041144. What Drives Differences in Management Practices? Nicholas A. Bloom, Erik Brynjolfsson, Lucia Foster, Ron Jarmin, Megha Patnaik, Itay Saporta-Eksten, John Van Reenen. American Economic Review. May 2019, Vol. 109, Issue 5, Pages 1648-1683. Firming Up Inequality Jae Song, David J. Price, Faith Guvenen, Nicholas A. Bloom, Till von Wachter. The Quarterly Journal of Economics. February 1, 2019, Vol. 134, Issue 1, Pages 1-50. A Toolkit of Policies to Promote Innovation Nicholas A. Bloom. Journal of Economic Perspectives. 2019, Vol. 33, Issue 3, Pages 163-184. Brexit and Uncertainty: Insights from the Decision Maker Panel Nicholas A. Bloom, Philip Bunn, Scarlet Chen, Paul Mizen, Pawel Smietanka, Greg Thwaites, Gary Young. Fiscal Studies. December 2018, Vol. 39, Issue 4, Pages 555-580. Innovation, Reallocation, and Growth Daron Acemoglu, Ufuk Akcigit, Harun Alp, Nicholas A. Bloom, William Kerr. American Economic Review. November 2018, Vol. 108, Issue 11, Pages 3450-3491. Really Uncertain Business Cycles Nicholas A. Bloom, Max Floetotto, Nir Jaimovich, Itay Saporta-Eksten, Stephen Terry. Econometrica. May 25, 2018, Vol. 86, Issue 3. Management Practices, Workforce Selection, and Productivity Stefan Bender, Nicholas A. Bloom, David Card, John Van Reenen, Stephanie Woter. Journal of Labor Economics. January 2018, Vol. 36, Issue 1, Pages 371-409. Tracking the views of British businesses: evidence from the Decision Maker Panel Nicholas A. Bloom, Philip Bunn, Paul Mizen, Pawel Smietanka, Greg Thwaites. Bank of England Quarterly Bulletin. September 2017, Vol. 57, Issue 2, Pages 110-120. Why Do We Undervalue Competent Management? Raffaella Sadun, Nicholas A. Bloom, John Van Reenen. Harvard Business Review. September 2017, Vol. 95, Issue 5, Pages 120-127. Observations on Uncertainty Nicholas A. Bloom. Australian Economic Review. February 28, 2017, Vol. 50, Issue 1, Pages 79-84. Measuring Economic Policy Uncertainty Scott R. Baker, Nicholas A. Bloom, Steven J. Davis. The Quarterly Journal of Economics. July 11, 2016, Vol. 131, Issue 4, Pages 1593-1636. International Data on Measuring Management Practices Nicholas A. Bloom, Renata Lemos, Raffaella Sadun, Daniela Scur, John Van Reenen. American Economic Review. May 2016, Vol. 106, Issue 5, Pages 152-156. Does Working from Home Work? Evidence from a Chinese Experiment Nicholas A. Bloom, James Liang, John Roberts, Zhichun Jenny Ying. The Quarterly Journal of Economics. February 2015, Vol. 130, Issue 1, Pages 165-218. The Impact of Competition on Management Quality: Evidence from Public Hospitals Stephan Seiler, Nicholas A. Bloom, Carol Propper, John Van Reenen. The Review of Economic Studies. January 2015, Vol. 82, Issue 2, Pages 457-489. Other Publications Rising Brexit Uncertainty Has Reduced Investment and Employment Nicholas A. Bloom, Scarlet Chen, Paul Mizen. Vox EU. November 16, 2018. Working Papers Are Ideas Getting Harder to Find? | PDF Nicholas A. Bloom, Charles I. Jones, John Van Reenen, Michael Webb, September 2017 Does Working from Home Work? Evidence from a Chinese Experiment | PDF Nicholas A. Bloom, James Liang, John Roberts, Zhichun Jenny Ying, March 2013 Incomplete Contracts and the Internal Organization of Firms Philippe Aghion, Nicholas A. Bloom, John Van Reenen, February 2013 Stanford Case Studies Gokaldas Exports (A): The Challenge of Change | SM213A Nicholas Bloom, John Van Reenen, Sheila Melvin2013 Gokaldas Exports (B): Update | SM213B Nicholas Bloom, John Van Reenen, Sheila Melvin2013 Stanford University AffiliationsStanford GSB Faculty Affiliate, King Center on Global Development Faculty Affiliate, Golub Capital Social Impact Lab In the Media Tracking the global mindset of uncertainty Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, November 7, 2019 When gridlock and political uncertainty rise, US economy takes a hit Christian Science Monitor, June 21, 2016 Tallying the Economic Toll of Political Upheaval The Wall Street Journal, May 15, 2016 Different this time? Trump candidacy could weigh on Fed thinking Reuters, May 12, 2016 Corporate Inequality Is the Defining Fact of Business Today HBR, May 11, 2016 Research Confirm It: Good Managers Make a Difference Government Executive, May 4, 2016 The Death of the 9-to-5: Will We All Work Flex Schedules Soon? Working Mother , March 24, 2015 Insights by Stanford Business writtenThe Productivity Pitfalls of Working from Home in the Age of COVID-19 April 16, 2020 Nicholas Blooms research has measured the benefits of working from home. But in the current coronavirus crisis, the economist fears productivity will plummet. writtenThe 1930s Depression Was Great. This One Might Be Greater. April 2, 2020 The coronavirus pandemic may end this winter, but a longtime expert says the economic damage will be deep and could last for years. writtenUncertainty Drags Down Global Growth November 22, 2019 Tariffs and trade policy uncertainty have had a chilling impact on business, a Stanford scholar says. writtenThe Five Best Policies to Promote Innovation And One Policy to Avoid October 7, 2019 A new toolkit aims to teach governments about which policies are supported by research. writtenHow Much Does Management Matter to Productivity? September 9, 2019 More than you might realize. Research finds management practices account for 20% of variation in productivity among certain firms. writtenWhat Brexit Means to UK Business: Like Jumping out of a Plane without a Parachute January 30, 2019 A Stanford economist finds that Brexit is a top source of uncertainty for almost half of UK companies. writtenWhy Uncertainty Shocks Are Part of the Trump-Era Economy September 6, 2018 A Stanford economist says that populist politicians have become a major source of economic uncertainty. written10 Most-Read Stories of 2017 December 4, 2017 Readers keyed into humors workplace value, the secret to improving communication skills, and advice from Sheryl Sandberg and Marc Andreessen. writtenBig Ideas Are Getting Harder to Find September 25, 2017 Stanford economists show productivity has not matched increases in research and development. writtenWhy Working from Home Is a Future-Looking Technology June 22, 2017 A Stanford GSB expert shows how companies and employees benefit from workplace flexibility. writtenStephan Seiler: Can Hospital Competition Save Lives? June 9, 2015 Why market forces in healthcare are good for patient care. writtenRisk: The Recommended List December 15, 2014 Learn more about risk and other related topics. writtenNicholas Bloom: What Leads to Economic Uncertainty? October 10, 2014 An economist explains how political polarization and government growth have increased uncertainty. writtenNicholas Bloom: Decentralized Firms are More Recession-Proof October 6, 2014 Research shows that flexibility wins in bad economic times. writtenNicholas Bloom: Innovation Requires Delegating Authority August 18, 2014 An economics scholar examines ways firms create flexible structures and why some do not. writtenResearchers: Flexibility May Be the Key to Increased Productivity October 9, 2012 A study reveals that working from home boosts employee happiness and productivity. writtenCan Research and Teaching Help Alleviate Poverty? May 9, 2012 A group of scholars, students, and business and nonprofit leaders say yes, but it requires "a thoughtful, systemic approach." writtenResearch: Economics Lessons From Indian Textile Firms December 1, 2010 New studies show that firms implementing systematic management practices improved their productivity by 10 percent reduced defects by 60 percent. School News writtenLessons From the Factory Floor April 12, 2017 Can teaching better management skills improve the lives of workers? writtenThe Elevator Pitch January 9, 2017 Inside Stanford GSBs ambitious venture to lift people out of poverty. writtenJohn Roberts Altered the Study of Industrial Organization November 1, 2010 John Roberts' groundbreaking work in industrial organization affected the course of economic research and inspired a new generation of economists. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
