Lanier Benkard | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Lanier Benkard In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty Lanier Benkard Lanier Benkard Professor, EconomicsContact Info+1 (650) 725-2173Email CV LanierBenkardThe Gregor G. Peterson Professor of EconomicsAcademic Area:EconomicsAdditional Administrative TitlesCo-Director, Digital Business InitiativeResearch StatementProfessor Benkards research is in the areas of industrial organization, applied microeconomics, and econometrics. His research involves applying microeconomic and game theoretic models to the study of individual markets. His recent work has focused on empirical applications of dynamic oligopoly, and he has recently studied the commercial aircraft and personal computer industries.BioC. Lanier Benkard is the Gregor G. Peterson Professor of Economics at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, where he teaches courses in Industrial Organization and Econometrics. Before coming to Stanford in 1998, he received his PhD in Economics from Yale University (1998). He has also been a visiting scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (2005-06) and the University of California at Berkeley (2006). Professor Benkards research is in the areas of empirical industrial organization (I.O.), applied microeconomics, and econometrics, and concentrates on applying microeconomic and game theoretic models to the study of individual markets. His recent work has focused on developing methods that allow us to analyze I.O. models empirically. This includes theoretical work on how to estimate demand systems and dynamic oligopoly models, as well as empirical work that uses these techniques to analyze different industries. The recent empirical work includes studies of learning by doing in the commercial aircraft industry, and studies of the demand for personal computers, and of airline mergers. Professor Benkard is a Faculty Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research and is a member of the American Economic Association and the Econometric Society, and has organized conferences for numerous other professional organizations, including the EEA, INFORMS, NBER, SCE, and SITE. At Stanford, Benkard teaches a course on applied statistics and decision theory in the first year MBA core, as well as PhD courses in Econometrics and Industrial Organization. He also advises PhD students, and several of his former students are now faculty at leading economics departments and business schools.Academic DegreesPhD in Economics, Yale University, 1998MPhil in Economics, Yale University, 1996MA in Economics, University of Toronto, 1991BSc in Economics & Math, University of Toronto, 1990Academic AppointmentsAt Stanford since 1998.Professor of Economics, Yale University, 2009-2011Awards and HonorsGraduate School of Business Trust Faculty Fellow, 2016-2017James & Doris McNamara Faculty Fellow, 2014-2015Publications Journal Articles Oblivious Equilibrium for Concentrated Industries Lanier Benkard, Przemyslaw Jeziorski, Gabriel Weintraub. The RAND Journal of Economics. October 2015, Vol. 46, Issue 4, Pages 671708. Industry Dynamics: Foundations for Models with an Infinite Number of Firms Gabriel Weintraub, Lanier Benkard, Ben Van Roy. Journal of Economic Theory. September 2011, Vol. 146, Issue 5, Pages 19651994. Computational Methods for Oblivious Equilibrium Gabriel Weintraub, Lanier Benkard, Benjamin Van Roy. Operations Research. June 3, 2010, Vol. 58, Issue 4, Pages 12471265. Markov Perfect Industry Dynamics with Many Firms Gabriel Weintraub, Lanier Benkard, Ben Van Roy. Econometrica. November 2008, Vol. 76, Issue 6, Pages 13751411. Estimating Dynamic Models of Imperfect Competition Patrick Bajari, Lanier Benkard, Jonathan Levin. Econometrica. September 2007, Vol. 75, Issue 5, Pages 13311370. A Dynamic Analysis of the Market for Wide-Bodied Commercial Aircraft Lanier Benkard. Review of Economic Studies. 2004, Vol. 71, Issue 3, Pages 581-611. Learning and Forgetting: The Dynamics of Aircraft Production Lanier Benkard. American Economic Review. 2000, Vol. 90, Issue 4, Pages 1034-1054. Working Papers The Long Run Effects of U.S. Airline Mergers Lanier Benkard, Aaron Bodoh-Creed, John Lazarev, April 2014 Demand Estimation with Heterogeneous Consumers and Unobserved Product Characteristics: A Hedonic Approach | PDF Patrick Bajari, Lanier Benkard, January 192004 Teaching Degree Courses 2020-21 MGTECON 628: Reading Group in Industrial Organization This course meets weekly on Tuesdays at Noon. The primary purpose of the course is to read and discuss current working papers in Industrial Organization and related fields (e.g., Econometrics, Marketing, and Labor). Students are required to... 2019-20 MGTECON 628: Reading Group in Industrial Organization This course meets weekly on Fridays at Noon. The primary purpose of the course is to read and discuss current working papers in Industrial Organization and related fields (e.g., Econometrics, Marketing, and Labor). Students are required to... OIT 274: Data and Decisions - Base (Flipped Classroom) Base Data and Decisions is a first-year MBA course in statistics and regression analysis. The course is taught using a flipped classroom model that combines extensive online materials with a lab-based classroom approach. Traditional lecture... 2018-19 MGTECON 628: Reading Group in Industrial Organization This course meets weekly on Tuesdays at Noon. The primary purpose of the course is to read and discuss current working papers in Industrial Organization and related fields (e.g., Econometrics, Marketing, and Labor). Students are required to... OIT 274: Data and Decisions - Base (Flipped Classroom) Base Data and Decisions is a first-year MBA course in statistics and regression analysis. The course is taught using a flipped classroom model that combines extensive online materials with a lab-based classroom approach. Traditional lecture... Stanford University AffiliationsStanford GSB Codirector, Digital Business: Data, Decisions & Platform Strategy InitiativeService to the Profession Research Associate, NBER, 2009-presentAssociate Editor, RAND Journal of Economics, 2006-present Insights by Stanford Business writtenHousing Inflation Does Not Hurt Consumers April 1, 2004 A new study concludes that the losses buyers incur are offset in the larger economy by the gains accrued by sellers. School News writtenFixing Economics Gender Problem May 14, 2019 Meet three graduates of an innovative Stanford GSB program designed to create a path for women and minorities in business academia. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
