Anne Beyer | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Anne Beyer In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty Anne Beyer Anne Beyer Associate Professor, AccountingContact Info(650) 736-0605Email CV AnneBeyerOn leave until December 2020.Associate Professor of AccountingAcademic Area:AccountingAdditional Administrative TitlesCo-Director, Finance and Accounting for the Nonfinancial Executive Research StatementAnne Beyers research interest is in the area of financial accounting with a focus on corporate disclosure, capital market prices, and corporate governance. Recent work has examined the properties of analyst and management earnings forecasts as well as investors reaction to different kinds of corporate disclosures.BioAnne Beyer is an Associate Professor of Accounting at the Stanford Graduate School of Business and the Michelle R. Clayman Faculty Scholar for 2008-2009 and 2010-2013. She teaches the introductory class in financial accounting and received the MBA Distinguished Teaching Award in 2013. Annes research focuses on corporate disclosure, information economics and corporate governance. Her recent work examines the properties of financial analysts and managements earnings forecasts, as well as investors reaction to earnings forecasts and other forms of corporate disclosures. This work includes studying managers and analysts incentives to bias forecasts and investors inferences about firms performance based on earnings forecasts. Native to Germany, Anne attended the University of Stuttgart and the University of Wales, Swansea, prior to moving to the U.S. for her doctoral studies. She received her PhD in Accounting from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Anne maintains a love for the outdoors, running, and travel.Academic DegreesPhD, Northwestern University, Kellogg School of Management, 2006Diplom Kauffrau, University of Stuttgart, 2001Academic AppointmentsAt Stanford University since 2006Awards and HonorsR. Michael Shanahan Faculty Scholar, Stanford GSB, 2018-2019MSx Teaching Excellence Award, Stanford GSB, 2018Walter J. Gores Award, Stanford University, 2014MBA Distinguished Teaching Award, Stanford GSB, 2013German National Academic Foundation, 1997-2001Publications Journal Articles Earnings Management and Earnings Quality: Theory and Evidence Anne Beyer, Ilan Guttman, Ivn Marinovic. The Account Review. July 2019, Vol. 94, Issue 4, Pages 77-101. From Casual to Causal Inference in Accounting Research: The Need for Theoretical Foundations Jeremy Bertomeu, Anne Beyer, Daniel J. Taylor. Foundations & Trends in Accounting. August 17, 2016, Vol. 10, Issue 2-4, Pages 179-236. Optimal Contracts with Performance Manipulation Anne Beyer, Ivn Marinovic, Ilan Guttman. Journal of Accounting Research. September 2014, Vol. 52, Issue 4, Pages 817-847. Voluntary Disclosure, Manipulation and Real Effects Anne Beyer, Ilan Guttman. Journal of Accounting Research. December 2012, Vol. 50, Issue 5, Pages 11411177. Capital Structure, Cost of Capital, and Voluntary Disclosures Jeremy Bertomeu, Anne Beyer, Ronald A. Dye. The Accounting Review. May 2011, Vol. 86, Issue 3, Pages 857-886. The Effect of Trading Volume on Analysts' Forecast Bias Anne Beyer, Ilan Guttman. The Accounting Review. March 2011, Vol. 86, Issue 2, Pages 451-481. The Financial Reporting Environment: Review of the Recent Literature Anne Beyer, Daniel Cohen, Thomas Lys, Beverly Walther. Journal of Accounting and Economics. 2010, Vol. 50, Issue 23, Pages 296343. Capital Market Prices, Management Forecasts, and Earnings Management Anne Beyer. The Accounting Review. November 2009, Vol. 84, Issue 6, Pages 1713-1747. Financial Analysts' Forecast Revisions and Managers' Reporting Behavior Anne Beyer. Journal of Accounting and Economics. 2008, Vol. 46, Issue 2-3, Pages 334348. Effects of Multiple Clients on the Reliability of Audit Reports Anne Beyer, Sri S. Sridhar. Journal of Accounting Research. March 2006, Vol. 44, Issue 1, Pages 29-51. Working Papers Conservatism and Aggregation: The Effect on Cost of Equity Capital and the Efficiency of Debt Contracts | PDF Anne Beyer, March 122012 Teaching Degree Courses 2020-21 FINANCE 373: Entrepreneurial Finance This is a course about the financial decision-making process largely from the point of view of the CEO of an entrepreneurial venture, ranging from very early to very late stages. The course takes a two-pronged approach: First, we develop tools... 2018-19 ACCT 219: MSx: Accounting A characteristic of business is the extensive use of accounting data. The financial accounting course has the general objective of developing students' understanding of the nature, scope, and limitations of accounting information. To achieve this... Executive Education & Other Non-Degree ProgramsDirectors ConsortiumLearn leading-edge strategies, frameworks, and best practices for making complex and crucial board decisions in uncertain times. Finance and Accounting for the Nonfinancial ExecutiveLearn how to make better financial management decisions to increase the value of your company in the marketplace. Stanford Executive Program: Be a Leader Who MattersEvolve as a leader in an executive education program that reinvigorates and ramps up your professional journey. Stanford Case Studies Fair Value Accounting for Financial Securities at Alphabet | A233 Anne Beyer, Jaclyn Foroughi2018 Revenue Recognition at Microsoft Corporation | A234 Anne Beyer, Jaclyn Foroughi2018 Depreciation at Deutsche Lufthansa AG | A224 Anne Beyer, Jaclyn Foroughi2015 BreatheScreen Inc. Transaction Analysis and Financial Statements | A216 Madhav Rajan, Anne Beyer, Jaclyn Foroughi2014 The Farm Winery | A217 Madhav Rajan, Anne Beyer, Jaclyn Foroughi2014 Work Well (B) | E362B Bethany Coates, R. Ellis, Lisa Sweeney, Anne Beyer2010 Service to the Profession Associate Editor, Journal of Accounting and Economics Insights by Stanford Business writtenYour Auditor's Other Clients Can Affect Your Stock Price August 1, 2007 Research explores the reliability of auditors' financial reports. School News writtenFrom the Dean: Starting a New School Year September 27, 2018 Considering the future of management education as we welcome students back to campus. writtenStudents Present 2018 Teaching Awards to Three Esteemed Faculty Members June 15, 2018 Students in the MBA, PhD, and MSx programs honored Professors Amit Seru, Peter Reiss, and Anne Beyer, respectively, for their teaching and service. writtenHonoring Excellence in Teaching June 4, 2013 Stanford GSB students honor three professors for their extraordinary teaching skill. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
