Value Chain Innovation Initiative | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Value Chain Innovation Initiative In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Centers & Research Initiatives Value Chain Innovation Initiative Value Chain Innovation Initiative The Value Chain Innovation Initiative brings together faculty, staff, students, and practitioners to advance the theory and practice of global value chain innovation through research and knowledge dissemination. We seek to understand the economic and social impacts of the global dynamics and digital communications that are reshaping business, industries, and ecosystems. Our research focuses on solving problems that are highly relevant to the greater global business community. 7:28 Benefits of Value Chain Innovation8,952 viewsVCII co-director Hau Lee explains how value chain innovations can help entrepreneurs in developing economies grow their businesses. 5:33 Value Chain Innovation Research1,705 viewsHaim Mendelson, co-director of VCII, gives an overview of research topics covered by the Initiative from the perspective of his current research. Learn More Download the Value Chain Innovation Initiative Brochure Featured Research White Paper Written Creating Value with Blockchain: A Value Chain Management PerspectiveThe goal of this paper is to evaluate blockchain technology in the context of value chain management, and identify the types of applications where the technology can potentially offer a real advantage over traditional solutions. White Paper WrittenValue Chain Innovation: The Promise of AIThis paper shares our understanding of how AI can improve various stages in the value chain, provides insight on how to design business strategies that leverage AI to create value, and raises important questions about the implications of an AI-driven future value chain. White Paper WrittenTechnology in Agribusiness: Opportunities to Drive ValueThis white paper examines how new technology will drive value in the evolving agribusiness value chain. White Paper Written U.S.-to-China B2C E-Commerce: Improving Logistics to Grow TradeThis white paper examines the various logistics models used for e-commerce shipments from the U.S. to China and makes recommendations for how U.S. merchants can improve delivery to the growing Chinese market. White Paper WrittenTechnological Disruption and Innovation in Last-Mile DeliveryThis paper examines the technologies and business models that are set to disrupt e-commerce deliveries at the last mile. ExploreOur Research Supply Chain Insights by Stanford Business November 6, 2020WrittenThe Costs and Benefits of Supply Chain TransparencyShould firms be required to disclose the negative social impacts of their suppliers? A new study investigates that question from the perspective of investors. May 28, 2020WrittenHow to Keep Supply Chains Reliable When the Worlds UpendedCOVID-19 has exposed the fragility of global supply chains. Maybe its time to rethink governments role. April 21, 2020WrittenPatagonia CEO: A Force for Environmental ChangeRose Marcario is working to push the business world to stop prioritizing short-term gain over long-term environmental impact. Events Event Summary WrittenValue Chains in Turbulent TimesTrade tensions, natural disasters, and the current global pandemic bring with them many challenges. Yet a variety of strategies, technologies, and digital innovations can help companies reduce risk and enhance supply chain resilience and agility. Event Summary WrittenLeveraging Blockchain for Value Chain InnovationBlockchain technology has real potential to provide business value. While many technical, financial, and regulatory hurdles still remain, blockchain offers significant opportunity for innovation along the value chain. Event Summary WrittenResponsible Supply ChainsWhile companies face many challenges to increasing corporate social responsibility in their supply chains, targeted initiatives and promising new technologies can create a positive impact in a changing world. Event Summary WrittenThe Promise of AIAI has yielded business benefits in design, manufacturing, logistics, sales and end use, but we are still in the early days of AI-enabled business value. If managers can successfully navigate biases, lack of algorithm transparency, effective human-machine collaboration, and other challenges, AI can become a valuable tool to strengthen the value chain. Past Events Hosted by the Value Chain Innovation Initiative Leveraging Blockchain for Value Chain InnovationMay 2019 Blockchain technology has real potential to provide business value. While many technical, financial, and regulatory hurdles still remain, blockchain offers significant opportunity for innovation along the value chain. VCII Event Summary: Leveraging Blockchain for Value Chain Innovation Responsible Supply ChainsDecember 2018 More than 80 academics, entrepreneurs, and practitioners gathered at Stanford to explore recent trends and technological innovations aimed at improving social and environmental performance. A range of speakers discussed issues in labor relations, corporate social responsibility, economic development, risk management, and environmental sustainability, and offered insights into addressing these issues. Speakers at the conference generally agreed that while companies face many challenges to increasing corporate social responsibility in their supply chains, targeted initiatives combined with promising new technological platforms can create a positive impact on workers well-being and the environment, as well as on organizations business performance. VCII Event Summary: Building Positive Impact in a Changing World The Promise of AIMay 2018 More than 120 industry leaders and academics gathered at Stanford to discuss the growing role of artificial intelligence in global value chains. It was clear from the days discussions that AI has yielded business benefits in design, manufacturing, logistics, sales and end use. Yet speakers agreed it is early days for AI-enabled business value. If managers can successfully manage challenges such as bias, lack of algorithm transparency and effective human-machine collaboration, AI can become a valuable tool to strengthen the value chain. VCII Event Summary: The Promise of AI The Future of CollaborationOctober 2017 This executive conference was co-sponsored by the Center for Work, Technology & Organization at Stanford School of Engineering and the Stanford Value Chain Innovation Initiative. Participants explored new business models arising from automation and collaborative forms of work. Speakers included leaders from an online labor market firm, 3D printing firm, open innovation design firm, augmented reality company, HR analytics company and more. Participants discussed and debated the economic value generated from new models of collaboration and work, along with the implications of new technologies on the meaning of work, teams and organizations. The Internet of Things in Global Value ChainsMay 2017 A continuation of the themes explored in The Rise of the Internet of Things in Global Value Chains (Israel, December 2016), this conference gathered over 100 people to discuss the current and future applications of the Internet of Things in value chains. Read the Insights coverage. The Rise of the Internet of Things in Global Value ChainsDecember 2016 This conference focused on the growing influence of the Internet of Things (IoT) in global value chains. Participants discussed questions such as: How will continued improvements in IoT technology and affordability affect retailers, manufacturers, logistics firms, marketing firms and other global value chain actors? What threats does the technology pose, and what opportunities can arise from the changing nature of how devices and products exchange information? Attendees discussed the challenges and opportunities associated with the growth of IoT, along with current trends. They also discussed new technologies and the service providers and firms using IoT in their business. The Future of Last Mile DeliveryOctober 2016 At this event, academics and industry practitioners gathered to discuss and debate the key disruptions which will alter global first and last mile logistics in the near future. Disruptions such as drones, self-driving cars, new logistics models from online e-commerce platforms (Amazon) and asset free, algorithm-based companies like Roadie and Uber were discussed. Participants and panelists explored how the changing landscape of e-commerce is affecting retailers, online marketplaces, logistics providers and others along the value chain. Shared Value in AgricultureMay 2016 Faculty, students, agribusiness entrepreneurs, civil society leaders, impact investors and other executives gathered to discuss value chain strategies to build social, environmental and economic value in global agriculture value chains. The goal of this conference was to explore key challenges balancing agricultural growth with sustainability and poverty alleviation in developing economies. Over the course of four panels and one wrap-up session, attendees discussed and debated operational strategies to promote social progress, sustainability, and inclusivity along agricultural value chains. The Rise of 3D Printing in Global Value ChainsApril 2016 This roundtable focused on the growing influence of 3D printing in global value chains. How will continued improvements in the technology and affordability of 3D printers affect retailers, manufacturers, logistics firms and other global value chain actors? What threats does the technology pose, and what opportunities can arise from the changing nature of how products are created? Participants discussed the challenges and opportunities associated with the growth of 3D printing. Applications in health, automotive, shoes, manufacturing and other sectors were discussed. Efforts to produce mass customization at scale were highlighted, as was the shift from 3D printing as merely a prototyping tool. Data-Driven Marketing for E-CommerceOctober 2015 Online and multichannel retailers have access to information from internet shopping habits, browsing activity, social networking activity, mobile phone use and much more. With the wealth of information available, it can be challenging to derive meaningful insights on what customers are looking for. Increasingly, companies are using big data and analytics to better understand customer habits and needs, identify markets and personalize messaging. Participants from industry and academia discussed how a data-driven approach helps companies to grow sales both locally and globally. Challenges around the changing path to market, optimizing marketing for online and mobile platforms, cultivating global customers, social media communications, personalized marketing and more were discussed. Global Supply Chain Benchmark StudyDecember 2014 This event was co-sponsored by the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania; McDonough School of Business, Georgetown University; WHU Otto Beisheim School of Management, Germany; Olin Business School, Washington University in St. Louis; Graduate School of Business, Stanford University; Graduate School of Business Administration, Kobe University, Japan; and Leavey School of Business, Santa Clara University. Academics and industry practitioners discussed results from a global benchmark study assessing the drivers and challenges behind global sourcing decisions. Industry perspectives from automotive, manufacturing, ICT and other sectors were shared. International Conference on University Social ResponsibilityNovember 2014 The Stanford Value Chain Innovation Initiative co-hosted an international conference on university social responsibility with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University and other partners. The Value Chain Innovation Initiatives research on responsible supply chains was presented to highlight the role universities can have in spurring social change among the student body and the world at large. The New Logistics of E-CommerceOctober 2014 Attendees explored how mobile purchasing, same-day delivery and other trends are driving e-commerce companies toward a new logistics. Discussions centered around how new technologies and changing consumer behaviors are creating opportunities in the e-commerce value chain. Attendees learned about the continued rise in omnichannel commerce, the growth of mobile and social commerce, and innovations in logistics that are responding to these dynamics. Contactthe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeSubscribeto Value Chain Innovation Newsletters Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
