Quick Guides | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Corporate Governance Research Initiative In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Centers & Research Initiatives Corporate Governance Research Initiative Research by the Corporate Governance Research Initiative Quick Guides Quick Guides These quick guides provide a concise introduction to corporate governance concepts by combining descriptions, data, and research in a format that is easily digestible. Subscribeto Corporate Governance Emails Quick Guide|Introduction to Corporate Governance David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020Corporate governance has become a well-discussed and controversial topic among corporations, shareholders, and the general public. However, the debate over what constitutes good governance often lacks structure, making it difficult... Quick Guide|Corporate Governance Failure, Fraud, and Scandal: Data David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2018This Data Spotlight provides data and statistics on unethical behavior in corporations and other negative outcomes including bankruptcy, litigation, and corruption in the United States. This data supplements in the... Quick Guide|International Corporate Governance David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020The governance system that a company adopts is not independent of its environment. Instead, it is shaped by a variety of factors inherent to the business setting. This Quick Guide... Quick Guide|Board of Directors: Duties and Liabilities David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020The board of directors plays a central role in the corporate governance system. All countries require that publicly listed companies have a board. While their attributes vary across nations, they... Quick Guide|Board of Directors: Selection, Compensation, and Removal David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020A board of directors requires professionals with a diverse mix of managerial, functional, and other specialized knowledge in order to properly advise and oversee management. This Quick Guide reviews the... Research Spotlight|Board Composition, Quality, & Turnover David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, April 2020This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on board composition, quality, and turnover. It reviews the evidence of: The appointment of outside CEOs as directors The... Quick Guide|Board of Directors: Structure and Consequences David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020The board of directors is generally described in terms of its prominent structural attributes, including size, composition, and independence. This Quick Guide examines the importance of these, and whether they... Quick Guide|Board Structure: Data David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2018This Data Spotlight provides data and statistics on the attributes of boards of directors of publicly traded companies in the United States. This data supplements the issues introduced in the... Research Spotlight|Independent Chairman David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative (CGRI), November 2015This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on whether companies with an independent chairman of the board exhibit better governance quality than companies with a dual chairman/CEO.... Research Spotlight|Independent and Outside Directors David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, November 2015This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on outside (non-executive) directors and directors who are independent according to New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. It reviews the... Research Spotlight|Diverse Boards David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, April 2016This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the research literature on whether companies with diverse boards (in terms of background, gender, or ethnicity) exhibit better performance and governance quality than... Quick Guide|Strategy and Risk Oversight David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020One of the primary responsibilities of the board of directors is to monitor the strategy and risk of the corporation. This Quick Guide provides a concise introduction to corporate strategy,... Quick Guide|CEO Succession Planning David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020The board of directors is responsible for ensuring that correct management is in place to run the organization. This includes hiring, evaluating, and when circumstances merit removing or... Quick Guide|CEO Succession: Data David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2018This Quick Guide provides data and statistics on the attributes of the CEOs and CEO succession events at publicly traded companies in the United States. This data supplements the issues... Research Spotlight|CEO Turnover David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2016This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on relation between CEO performance and turnover. It reviews the evidence of: The relation between performance and likelihood of... Research Spotlight|Internal vs. External CEOs David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, October 2016This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on internal and external CEOs. It reviews the evidence of: Trends in hiring external CEOs Operating condition of companies... Research Spotlight|CEO Attributes and Firm Performance David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2016This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on the influence that CEOs have on company outcomes (performance and risk). It reviews the evidence of: The contribution... Quick Guide|CEO Compensation David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2020A company offer a competitive compensation arrangement in order to attract, retain, and motivate a qualified CEO to manage the organization. This Quick Guide examines the elements of executive compensation... Quick Guide|CEO Compensation: Data David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, January 2019This Data Spotlight provides data and statistics on the level and structure of CEO compensation in the United States. This data supplements in the issues introduced in the Quick Guides... Quick Guide|CEO Pay Levels David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, March 2017This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on CEO pay levels in the United States. It reviews the evidence of: Long-term trends in the CEO compensation... Research Spotlight|Say on Pay David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2016This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on how shareholder voting on executive compensation plans influences executive pay. It reviews the evidence of: The impact of... Quick Guide|Equity Ownership David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2020A company offers equity incentives to encourage CEOs to take actions that are in the interest of shareholders. At the same time, equity incentives have the potential to encourage undesirable... Research Spotlight|Equity, Insider Trading, & Restatements David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, April 2017This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on the impact of equity ownership on firm performance and agency problems: The relation between equity ownership and performance... Research Spotlight|Compensation & Risk David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative (CGRI), 2015This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on how equity compensation influences CEO risk taking. It reviews the evidence of: The relation between stock options and... Quick Guide|Financial Reporting and External Audit David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2020The board of directors is responsible for ensuring the integrity of published financial statements. This includes working with management to set the parameters for accounting quality and internal controls, and... Quick Guide|The Market for Corporate Control David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2020The board of directors might decide it is in the best interest of shareholders to sell the corporation to new owners. In theory, a change in control only makes sense... Research Spotlight|Golden Parachutes David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative (CGRI), 2015This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on how golden parachute payments influence CEO incentives to pursue mergers and acquisitions. It reviews the evidence of: Shareholder... Research Spotlight|Staggered Boards David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2015This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on how staggered boards impact shareholder value by insulating management from the pressures of capital markets. It reviews the evidence... Quick Guide|Shareholders & Shareholder Activism David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2020Shareholders exert influence over the corporation through the board of directors and the proxy voting process. While indirect, this influence can be powerful in shaping corporate policy. This Quick Guide... Quick Guide|Shareholders and Corporate Control: Data David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, January 2019This Data Spotlight provides data and statistics on shareholder activism and the market for corporate control. This data supplements the issues introduced in the Quick Guides The Market for... Quick Guide|Shareholder Activism David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, November 2017This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on shareholder activism, including: The impact of union activism on corporate outcomes. The performance of socially responsible investment funds.... Research Spotlight|Proxy Advisors David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, August 2017This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on the role of proxy advisors in the proxy voting process: This Research Spotlight expands upon issues introduced in the... Quick Guide|ESG and Stakeholders David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. 2020There has been tremendous pressure on companies to satisfy stakeholder considerations as part of their long-term planning and governance. This activity is broadly categorized as ESG (environmental, social, and governance).... Quick Guide|Alternative Models of Governance David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, September 2020Other organizational structures exist besides public corporations. Examples include family-controlled businesses, venture-backed companies, private equity-owned businesses, and nonprofit organizations. Each of these faces their own issues relating to purpose, ownership,... Quick Guide|Venture Capital and Pre-IPO Governance: Data David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Quick Guide Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, 2019This Data Spotlight provides data and statistics on the venture capital industry and the governance of pre-IPO companies in the United States. This data supplements the issues introduced in the... Research Spotlight|Environmental, Social, and Governance Activities David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative (CGRI), March 2019This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) activities including: The relation between ESG activities and firm value The impact of... Research Spotlight|Dual-Class Shares David F. Larcker, Brian TayanCGRI Research Spotlight Series. Corporate Governance Research Initiative, March 2019This Research Spotlight provides a summary of the academic literature on how dual-class share structures influence firm value and corporate governance quality. It reviews the evidence of: The relation... Subscribe to Corporate Governance Emails See also Corporate Governance Learn about corporate accountability and social responsibility, and the operational structures of corporations in Insights by Stanford Business. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
