Jonathan Bendor | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Jonathan Bendor In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty Jonathan Bendor Jonathan Bendor Professor, Political EconomyContact Info+1 (650) 723-4480Email CV JonathanBendorThe Walter and Elise Haas Professor of Political Economics and OrganizationsProfessor of Political Science (by courtesy), School of Humanities and SciencesAcademic Area:Political EconomyResearch StatementJonathan Bendor's research focuses on three areas: 1) theories of bounded rationalityhow cognitive constraints affect decision making; 2) the evolution of cooperation and of norms of collective action; 3) the study of bureaucracyinstitutional methods of easing cognitive constraints faced by individual decision makers.BioJon Bendor is the Walter and Elise Haas Professor of Political Economics and Organizations at the Graduate School of Business. He joined the Stanford faculty in 1979, having earned all of his degrees at the University of California, Berkeley. He is a Professor of Political Science, by courtesy, and also teaches in Stanfords Public Policy Program. He was director of the GSBs Doctoral Program for four years. He teaches the MBA course on negotiations and plans to write a (short) text on the subject. Bendor was a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in 1999-2000 and in 2004-2005. He is in the Whos Who in Economics (4th ed.) and is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.Academic DegreesPhD, UC Berkeley, 1980MA, UC Berkeley, 1973BA, UC Berkeley, 1972Academic AppointmentsAt Stanford since 1979Professor of Public Policy and Public Management, Stanford GSB, 1994-1999Associate Professor of Public Policy and Public Management, Stanford GSB, 1986 -1994Assistant Professor of Public Policy and Public Management, Stanford GSB, 1979-1986Awards and HonorsHank McKinnell-Pfizer Inc. Faculty Fellow for 2016-2017Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 2004Fellow, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, 2004Robert H. Durr Award, Midwest Political Science Association, 2001Fellow, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, 1999Heinz Eulau Award, American Political Science Association, 1998Publications Journal Articles Optimal Team Composition for ToolBased Problem Solving Jonathan Bendor, Scott E. Page. Journal of Economics & Management Strategy. December 5, 2018, Vol. 28, Issue 4, Pages 734-764. Incrementalism: Dead yet Flourishing Jonathan Bendor. Public Administration Review. March 2015, Vol. 75, Issue 2, Pages 194-205. A Behavioral Model of Turnout Jonathan Bendor, Daniel Diermeier, Michael Ting. American Political Science Review. 2003, Vol. 97, Issue 2, Pages 261-280. Recycling the Garbage Can: An Assessment of the Research Program Jonathan Bendor, Terry M. Moe, Ken Shotts. American Political Science Review. March 2001, Vol. 95, Issue 1, Pages 169-190. Aspiration-Based Reinforcement Learning in Repeated Interaction Games: An Overview Jonathan Bendor, Dilip Mookherjee, Debraj Ray. International Game Theory Review. 2001, Vol. 3, Issue 2-3. Golden rules and leaden worlds: Exploring the limitations of Tit-for-Tat as a social decision rule Roderick M. Kramer, Jane Wei, Jonathan Bendor. Social Influences on Ethical Behavior in Organizations. Mahwah: Erlbaum, 2001, Pages 183-208. Theories of Delegation Jonathan Bendor, A. Glazer, T. Hammond. Annual Review of Political Science. 2001, Vol. 4, Pages 235-269. Cooperation under uncertainty: What is new, what is true, and what is important Jonathan Bendor, Roderick M. Kramer, Piotar Swistak. American Sociological Review. 1996, Vol. 61, Issue 2, Pages 333-338. When in doubt: Cooperation in a noisy prisoner's dilemma Jonathan Bendor, Roderick M. Kramer, Suzanne Stout. Journal of Conflict Resolution. 1991, Vol. 35, Issue 4, Pages 691-719. Books Bounded Rationality and Politics Jonathan Bendor Berkeley: University of California Press, 2010. Parallel Systems: Redundancy in Government Jonathan Bendor University of California Press, 1985. Teaching Degree Courses 2020-21 OB 381: Conflict Management and Negotiation Conflict is unavoidable in every organization. The key question is how it will be handled: will it escalate to dysfunctional levels or will it be effectively managed? Hence, a first aim of the course is to develop your ability to analyze... POLECON 660: Behavioral Political Economy This course studies the cognitive scientific foundations of political economy. It builds on the explosion of research in cognitive psychology, evolutionary anthropology, and allied fields over the last few decades to provide perspectives on... 2019-20 OB 381: Conflict Management and Negotiation Conflict is unavoidable in every organization. The key question is how it will be handled: will it escalate to dysfunctional levels or will it be effectively managed? Hence, a first aim of the course is to develop your ability to analyze... POLECON 660: Behavioral Political Economy Most of modern political economy is based on theories of completely rational agents. This has been an enormously fruitful modeling strategy. (Ironically, the approach is sensible partly because researchers are themselves boundedly rational.)... 2018-19 OB 381: Conflict Management and Negotiation Conflict is unavoidable in every organization. The key question is how it will be handled: will it escalate to dysfunctional levels or will it be effectively managed? Hence, a first aim of the course is to develop your ability to analyze... POLECON 660: Behavioral Political Economy Most of modern political economy is based on theories of completely rational agents. This has been an enormously fruitful modeling strategy. (Ironically, the approach is sensible partly because researchers are themselves boundedly rational.)... Stanford University AffiliationsStanford GSB Faculty Director, PhD ProgramGreater Stanford University Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences Member, Stanford University Press, 2000-2003Service to the Profession Member, American Journal of Political Science, 1998-2001Member, American Political Science Review, 1995-2001 Insights by Stanford Business videoBuilding Teams to Tackle the Most Challenging Problems September 21, 2020 Yes, expertise matters. But diverse skill sets matter just as much and perhaps even more when it comes to solving hard problems. writtenHow to Build Better Teams March 26, 2020 Hiring the best isnt always the brightest move. videoFaculty and Alumni Entrepreneurs Share Their Best Advice December 28, 2016 Take these life lessons to heart and reset your thinking for the new year. writtenJonathan Bendor: Why Criticism is Good for Innovation June 23, 2015 How to quash bad ideas without stifling innovation. writtenJonathan Bendor: A Toolkit for Solving Problems May 29, 2015 Is classic research on decision-making still relevant today? School News writtenAnnouncing New Symposia to Honor Economist David M. Kreps February 19, 2019 The newly established symposia are a testament to the lasting impact of David M. Kreps contributions to Stanford GSB. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
