Energy Business Innovations | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Energy Business Innovations In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Centers & Research Initiatives Energy Business Innovations Energy Business Innovations Energy Business Innovations examines the challenges and opportunities for the electricity, transportation, and industrial sectors that emerge from the transition to a decarbonized energy future. Despite broad consensus that the worlds economies must transition to decarbonized energy sources, questions remain whether this can be achieved in time to avert the most harmful consequences of global warming due to increased CO2 concentrations. Neither is it clear how different pathways to decarbonization compare in terms of economic benefits and costs. EBI focuses on how the transition to a decarbonized energy future can be accelerated and accepted in the marketplace. Research Focus Areas The economics of moving to clean power Integration of renewable energy into electric power systems around the world Costs of energy storage Prospects and synergies for electric mobility and the electric grid Advances in digital technology in creating a flexible and decarbonized grid EBI is a joint focus area of Stanford Graduate School of Business and the Precourt Institute for Energy. EBI receives partial funding from the Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance, and is housed within the Sustainable Finance Initiative at Stanford University. Featured Research Journal Article|Synergistic Value in Vertically Integrated PowertoGas Energy Systems Gunther Glenk, Stefan J. ReichelsteinProduction and Operations Management. October 2019In vertically integrated energy systems, integration frequently entails operational gains that must be traded off against the requisite cost of capacity investments. In the context of the model analyzed in... Journal Article|The Emergence of Cost Effective Battery Storage Stephen D. Comello, Stefan J. ReichelsteinNature Communications. May 2019, Vol. 10, Issue 1, Pages 2038Energy storage will be key to overcoming the intermittency and variability of renewable energy sources. Here, we propose a metric for the cost of energy storage and for identifying optimally... Journal Article|Economics of Converting Renewable Power to Hydrogen Stefan J. Reichelstein, Gunther GlenkNature Energy. February 25 , 2019, Vol. 4, Pages 216-222The recent sharp decline in the cost of renewable energy suggests that the production of hydrogen from renewable power through a power-to-gas process might become more economical. Here we examine... Accessthe Levelized Cost of Energy Calculator 30:26 Leading After a Nuclear Disaster1,359 viewsA conversation with Naomi Hirose, Vice Chairman, TEPCO, on how to effectively lead a company through catastrophe. Past Events Naomi Hirose: Leading After a Nuclear DisasterLeading After a Nuclear Disaster: A Conversation with Naomi Hirose, Vice Chairman, TEPCO February 2019 Eight years have passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 and subsequent Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant accident. Steady progress has been made towards the reconstruction of Fukushima, repopulation of surrounding areas, and the decommissioning of the plant, of which Tokyo Electric Power Company Holdings shouldered $150 billion (USD) in accident-related costs. This talk illuminated how TEPCO senior management responded to these challenges, how progress was made, and what remains unfinished today. This event featured Naomi Hirose, President of TEPCO (20122017), who shared his personal insight and story of leading a company through disaster. Innovation in the Energy IndustryJuly 2017 The electricity industry is undergoing fundamental shifts at the global level. Utilities, especially, are caught in the crosswinds of change as they see their existing business models and core competencies upended. The traditional utility industry as a whole has not had to innovate fundamentally in decades and while some utilities across the world remain sanguine, others are actively exploring new operations and offerings to capture potential new value. The key challenge remains for utilities: When should they innovate and on what, how and with or by whom? To explore this challenge, SEI and the Group for Sustainability and Technology at ETH Zurich co-hosted a moderated panel of representatives from leading electricity firms. The Birth and Growth of Opower: Changing the World of Energy EfficiencyEnergy Efficiency Seminar Series, Session Four May 2017 In this session, Alex Laskey, president and founder of Opower, the cloud services company acquired by Oracle in 2016, discussed how Opower introduced the concept of behavior-based energy savings to the world of energy efficiency, using advances in technology and the application of behavioral science techniques. He discussed policy innovations advocated by Opower that were eventually adopted by multiple public utility commissions. Finally, he described the evolution of service offerings as Opower grew to reach more than 60 million households globally. Intelligent Energy SystemsEnergy Efficiency Seminar Series, Session Three May 2017 The extraordinary confluence of sensory data, ambient computation, and advanced algorithms has driven the rapid rise of artificial intelligence. In this session, machine-learning and energy evangelist Jim Gao of DeepMind explored the applications of AI to intelligent energy systems for large-scale social impact. Australias Broad-Based Approach to Energy Efficiency in Office BuildingsEnergy Efficiency Seminar Series, Session Two May 2017 While the energy efficiency of Australias office buildings has improved significantly in recent years, progress still varies among sub-sectors. In this session, Rob Murray-Leach, head of policy for the Australian Energy Efficiency Council, discussed the key drivers of investments in office building energy efficiency, and included an in-depth look at how such decisions are made. He also covered key components of creating effective EE strategies, including energy efficiency ratings, training approaches, minimum standards, standardized contracts, and addressing the principal-agent problem with a proposal to introduce minimum standards for office rentals. Maximizing the Value of Energy EfficiencyEnergy Efficiency Seminar Series, Session One April 2016 Mark Wallenrod, director of Demand Side Management Programs at Southern California Edison (SCE), led a discussion about SCEs efforts to maximize the value of energy efficiency in a changing electric industry and the historical role of energy efficiency as an alternative to generation and transmission investments. He also covered the impact of changing technology on EE programs and SCEs innovative approach to delivering market-based solutions that meet locational needs. Finally, he detailed SCEs Preferred Resource Pilot, which facilitates and integrates third-party technologies and customer participation in EE programs as both a stand-alone solution and within a system of distributed energy resources. Isabelle Kocher: Becoming a Leader in the Energy RevolutionMarch 2017 An energy revolution is underway, propelled by the forces of decarbonization, decentralization, and digitalization. This revolution is causing a fundamental shift in the global landscape, where traditional businesses and organizations will need to significantly evolve or be left behind. In this session, Isabelle Kocher, chief executive officer of Engie, the French multinational electric utility company, shared insights about how Engie is adapting to the energy revolution and how this impacts the way the company runs. Engie is the worlds biggest non-state-owned electricity company, employing 155,000 people in 70 countries and generating more than 69.9 billion in revenues (2015). The Changing Electricity System: NY REV Discussion and ImplicationsOctober 2016 The Sustainable Energy Initiative hosted a facilitated roundtable examining the opportunities and challenges facing New Yorks Reforming the Energy Vision initiative, and to discuss implications for similar actions occurring worldwide. Rudy Stegemoeller, special assistant for energy policy at the New York Public Service Commission (retired) and lead author on NY REV, served as a key discussant. Attendees included faculty, students, utilities representatives, regulators, investors, and energy technology companies. Launched by New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo in 2014, NY REV aims to restructure the grid to provide a platform for utilities and third-party solution providers to offer services. The platform will handle both supply of electricity and management of loads. This new architecture is intended to unlock competition and innovation, benefit the environment and the grid, and reduce customer energy bills. However, NY REV will require immense changes to how utilities currently conduct business and how the physical grid is operated. Currently, municipal and investor-owned utilities (IOUs) host and coordinate a wide range of third-party distributed energy resources (DERs) on the grid. New Yorks commodity provision by IOUs is deregulated, and utilities continue to own transmission and distribution grids. Moreover, utilities have an exclusive monopoly on the planning and operation of their respective distribution system, of material consequence to the economic viability of DERs. The Changing Electricity System event summary highlights some of the main ideas discussed. This event adhered to the Chatham House Rule, so this summary does not attribute any statement to any individual or organization. The Changing Business Model for UtilitiesJune 2016 The utility industry is undergoing fundamental structural changes in many jurisdictions throughout the world. The traditional vertically integrated utility with monopoly status is increasingly replaced by networks of interacting and competing suppliers. At the same time, incumbent utilities are facing new federal and state-level regulations, driven in part by the goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from the electricity sector. The changing regulatory landscape continues to put pressure on the cost of delivering electricity services and existing rate structures. In June 2016, the Sustainable Energy Initiative explored the recent structural and regulatory developments in the utility industry, seeking to understand the forces causing utility business models to evolve, and potential future changes to value creation, market organization, and new service delivery approaches. Day One brought together a group of about sixty experts, including policymakers, utility executives, academics, and investors, who shared U.S. and international perspectives, and Day Ywo convened a roundtable of 20 selected participants for a facilitated discussion. The highlights some of the main ideas discussed. This conference adhered to the Chatham House Rule, so this summary does not attribute any statement to any individual or organization. Yieldcos: Prospects for an Innovative Energy Financing MechanismJune 2015 As a means to reduce the cost of equity and attract a wide set of institutional investors, renewable energy project developers have turned to sponsoring yieldcos (publicly-traded corporations that hold a portfolio of operating assets as a means of generating predictable, high-quality cash flows). More complex than a traditional corporate structure, yieldcos are designed to emulate the tax-efficient structure of master limited partnerships, which are not open to renewable energy projects. With many unanswered questions about yieldcos how they work, how they are valued, and their influence on national and international renewable energy deployment and finance the Sustainable Energy Initiative convened an expert panel to discuss the opportunities and risks of yieldcos. Energy Storage: Technologies, Business Models and PoliciesNovember 2015 Energy storage has been heralded as the next boom in clean energy technologies, an industry currently positioned today where solar PV was seven years ago. Energy storage not only has the ability to firm intermittent renewable energy, it also provides the prospects for the value streams of advanced demand response, peak shaving, ancillary services, and enhanced grid resilience. Additionally, innovations in energy storage will have effects on the grid through the growing electrification of transportation and increased need to share information across entities. How all of these elements fit together, what business models will emerge and what policies will drive or hinder deployment remain open questions. With this backdrop, the Sustainable Energy Initiative convened an expert panel to discuss the technologies, business models, and policies that will shape energy storage deployment. Topics included history and background, technologies and applications, business models, markets, information and rate structures, and policy drivers and barriers. ContactEnergy Business Innovations Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
