Justin M. Berg | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Justin M. Berg In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty Justin M. Berg Justin M. Berg Assistant Professor, Organizational BehaviorContact InfoEmail CVPersonal WebsiteTwitterGoogle Scholar JustinM.BergAssistant Professor of Organizational BehaviorAcademic Area:Organizational BehaviorResearch StatementJustin M. Bergs research focuses on creativity and innovation. He studies how to successfully develop, evaluate, and implement creative ideas in and outside organizations. This includes research on job crafting, which is the process of employees creatively redesigning their own jobs to better suit their personalities and interests.Research InterestsCreativityInnovationJob CraftingBioBerg received his PhD in management from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania and his BA in organizational studies and psychology from the University of Michigan. He has done research with and consulted for a variety of organizations, including Cirque du Soleil, Google, VMware, Burts Bees, and the Make-A-Wish Foundation. His work has been published in Administrative Science Quarterly, Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and Organization Science, as well as featured in TIME, BusinessWeek, Fast Company, Forbes, The Washington Post, and Harvard Business Review. Prior to graduate school, Berg was an R&D Consultant for the Center for Positive Organizations at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. During this time, he led the invention of the Job Crafting Exercise (along with Jane Dutton and Amy Wrzesniewski), which is a tool that helps people creatively redesign their jobs.Academic DegreesPhD, Management, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, 2015BA, Organizational Studies and Psychology, University of MichiganAwards and HonorsHank McKinnell-Pfizer Inc. Faculty Scholar for 20192020Hank McKinnell-Pfizer Inc. Faculty Fellow, 20182019Best Published Paper Award, Academy of Management OMT Division, 2017Penn Prize for Excellence in Teaching by Graduate Students, 2012Finalist, Best Paper in Journal of Organizational Behavior, 2010Finalist, Best Paper in Positive Organizational Scholarship, 2010Publications Journal Articles When Silver is Gold: Forecasting the Potential Creativity of Initial Ideas Justin M. Berg. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. September 2019, Vol. 154, Pages 96-117. Balancing on the Creative Highwire: Forecasting the Success of Novel Ideas in Organizations Justin M. Berg. Administrative Science Quarterly. July 2016, Vol. 61, Issue 3, Pages 433-468. The Primal Mark: How the Beginning Shapes the End in the Development of Creative Ideas Justin M. Berg. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. July 2014, Vol. 125, Issue 1, Pages 1-17. When Worlds Collide in Cyberspace: How Boundary Work in Online Social Networks Impacts Professional Relationships Ariane Ollier-Malaterre, Nancy P. Rothbard, Justin M. Berg. Academy of Management Review. October 2013, Vol. 38, Issue 4, Pages 645-669. Job Titles as Identity Badges: How Self-Reflective Titles Can Reduce Emotional Exhaustion Adam M. Grant, Justin M. Berg, Daniel M. Cable. Academy of Management . July 27, 2013, Vol. 57, Issue 4, Pages 1201-1255. When Callings Are Calling: Crafting Work and Leisure in Pursuit of Unanswered Occupational Callings Justin M. Berg, Adam M. Grant, Victoria Johnson. Organization Science. September 2010, Vol. 21, Issue 5, Pages 973-994. Perceiving and Responding to Challenges in Job Crafting at Different Ranks: When Proactivity Requires Adaptivity Justin M. Berg, Amy Wrzesniewski, Jane E. Dutton. Journal of Organizational Behavior. February 2010, Vol. 31, Issue 2-3, Pages 158-186. Teaching Degree Courses 2020-21 OB 662: Topics in Organizational Behavior: Intergroup Processes The primary objective of this course is to provide an overview and organizing framework of the micro-organizational behavior literature. This entails reading many foundational pieces that will cover the classic areas of research in the field. We... OB 675: Micro Research Methods This course helps students gain foundational knowledge on several different methods used in micro-OB research, including surveys, experiments (field and lab), longitudinal studies, content analysis, qualitative interviews, ethnography, cases, and... OB 681: Creativity Research This course covers theories and methods used in research on individual and group creativity. Several different approaches to studying creativity will be discussed, ranging from small-scale experiments to large-scale datasets. The goal is for... 2019-20 OB 662: Topics in Organizational Behavior: Intergroup Processes The primary objective of this course is to provide an overview and organizing framework of the micro-organizational behavior literature. This entails reading many foundational pieces that will cover the classic areas of research in the field. We... OB 675: Micro Research Methods This course helps students gain foundational knowledge on several different methods used in micro-OB research, including surveys, experiments (field and lab), longitudinal studies, content analysis, qualitative interviews, ethnography, cases, and... 2018-19 OB 675: Micro Research Methods This course helps students gain foundational knowledge on several different methods used in micro-OB research, including surveys, experiments (field and lab), longitudinal studies, content analysis, qualitative interviews, ethnography, cases, and... In the Media Google X and the Science of Radical Creativity The Atlantic, November 2017 The Art of Recognizing Good Ideas The Atlantic, June 27, 2016 Why Managers Squash Great Creative Ideas and Bet on Bad Ones Fast Company, March 1, 2016 The Best Judge of Your Ideas Isn't Your BossIt's Your Co-Workers Quartz, February 22, 2016 How Incredibly Creative People Come Up With Breakthrough Ideas Inc., February 2016 Unhappy at Work? Try Hacking Your Job The Wall Street Journal, August 11, 2015 How to Find the Sweet Spot of Killer Ideas Inc., September 18, 2014 The Case For Letting Employees Choose Their Own Job Titles Fast Company, September 4, 2014 Network Dispatch: Past the Pingpong Tables Wharton Magazine, January 2014 Why Some People Have No Boundaries Online Huffington Post, September 11, 2013 How To Turn The Job You Have Into The Job You Want Fast Company, August 13, 2013 'Job Crafting': The Great Opportunity In The Job You Already Have Forbes, June 20, 2013 Should you friend your boss on Facebook? The Washington Post, October 25, 2012 When Your Job Makes You Sick: Employees Find Little Leverage in Todays Workplace Knowledge@Wharton, September 28, 2011 Tweak Your Job and Love It Men's Health, December 2010 Hate Your Job? Here's How to Reshape It Time, December 4, 2009 Powerful Questions to Ask at a Job Interview Positive Psychology News, April 7, 2009 Call Waiting? Answer the Call for Career Well-Being Positive Psychology News, November 5, 2008 Insights by Stanford Business writtenWhy Your Best Idea May Be Your Second Favorite December 10, 2019 Research shows we can be more creative by selecting better initial ideas. writtenA Look Back at 2016 December 19, 2016 Read 10 Stanford Business stories from the past year, including pieces on work-life balance, power, and management. writtenManagers Are Not Always the Best Judge of Creative Ideas January 26, 2016 A professor turns to circus acts to determine how to predict the success of ideas. writtenShould Employees Design Their Own Jobs? January 22, 2016 A scholar who studies job crafting says you may be less stuck in your job than you think. School News writtenStanford GSB Welcomes New Faculty to Enrich, Broaden its Educational Experience October 6, 2015 New faculty and lecturers offer unique perspectives and experience to augment program offerings. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
