Jonathan B. Berk | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates Jonathan B. Berk In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty Jonathan B. Berk Jonathan B. Berk Professor, FinanceContact Info+1 (650) 721-1280Email CVStanford GSB Voices: Jonathan B. Berk JonathanB.BerkThe A.P. Giannini Professor of FinanceAcademic Area:FinanceResearch StatementJonathan Berks research is primarily theoretical in nature and covers a broad range of topics in finance including delegated money management; asset pricing (the relation between stock returns and characteristics of the firm, such as accounting numbers, investment, firm size, etc.); valuing the firms growth potential, the firms capital structure decision, and the interaction between labor markets and financial markets. He has also explored individual rationality in an experimental setting.BioJonathan Berk is the A.P. Giannini Professor of Finance at the Stanford Graduate School of Business (GSB). His research is primarily theoretical in nature and covers a broad range of topics in finance, including delegated money management; the pricing of financial assets; valuing a firms growth potential; the capital structure decision; and the interaction between labor markets and financial markets. He has also explored individual rationality in an experimental setting. Professor Berk has coauthored two finance textbooks: Corporate Finance and Fundamentals in Finance. The first edition of Corporate Finance is the most successful first edition textbook ever published in financial economics, and is a standard text in almost all top MBA programs around the world. At the GSB, he teaches courses in Institutional Money Management and Critical Analytical Thinking. Professor Berks research is internationally recognized and has won numerous awards, including the Stephen A. Ross Prize in Financial Economics, theTIAA-CREF Paul A. Samuelson Award, the Smith Breeden Prize, Best Paper of the Year in the Review of Financial Studies, and the FAME Research Prize. His article, A Critique of Size-Related Anomalies, was selected as one of the two best papers ever published in the Review of Financial Studies, and was also honored as one of the 100 seminal papers published by Oxford University Press. In recognition of his influence on the practice of finance, he has received the Graham and Dodd Award of Excellence, the Roger F. Murray Prize, and the Bernstein Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Award. He served as an associate editor of the Journal of Finance from 2000-2008, is currently an associate editor of the Journal of Portfolio Management, and is a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Also, he is a member of the board of directors of the Financial Management Association. Professor Berk received his PhD in finance from Yale University. Before joining Stanford he was the Sylvan Coleman Professor of Finance at Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. He was born and grew up in Johannesburg, South Africa. Video of Jonathan Berk: Are Mutual Fund Managers Skilled? Academic DegreesPhD, Yale University, 1990MA, MPhil, Yale University, 1989B.A. in Physics, Rice University, 1984Awards and HonorsFellow, Financial Management Association A Critique of Size Related Anomalies selected as one of 100 seminal papers published in the history of Oxford University PressA Critique of Size Related Anomalies selected as one of the two best papers ever published in The Review of Financial StudiesBernstein-Fabozzi/Jacobs Levy Award, Journal of Portfolio Management, 2006 (Five Myths of Active Portfolio Management)TIAA-CREF Paul A. Samuelson Award, 2005 (Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets)FAME Research Prize, 2003 (Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets)Roger F. Murray Prize (3rd Place), The Institute for Quantitative Research in Finance, 2003 (Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets)Best Paper, Utah Winter Finance Conference, 2003 (Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets)Honorable Mention (Teaching), Evening MBA program, 2000-2001Honorable Mention (Teaching), Evening MBA program, 1999-2000Smith Breeden Prize (Distinguished Paper), Journal of Finance, 1999 (Optimal Investment, Growth Options and Security Returns)Graham and Dodd Award of Excellence, Financial Analysts Journal, 1997 (Does Size Really Matter?)Best Paper, Review of Financial Studies, 1995 (A Critique of Size Related Anomalies)First Prize, 1996 Roger F. Murray Prize Competition, The Institute for Quantitative Research in Finance (Does Size Really Matter?)Second Prize, Chicago Quantitative Alliance Third Annual Academic Competition, 1996 (Optimal Investment, Growth Options and Security Returns)Richard D. Irwin Doctoral Fellowship, 1990Publications Journal Articles Matching Capital and Labor Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen, Binying Liu. Journal of Finance. August 28, 2017, Vol. 72, Issue 6, Pages 2467-2504. How do Investors Compute the Discount Rate? They Use the CAPM Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen. Financial Analyst Journal. May 2017, Vol. 73, Issue 2, Pages 25-32. How to Write an Effective Referee Report and Improve the Scientific Review Process Jonathan B. Berk, Cambell R. Harvey, David Hirshleifer. Journal of Economic Perspective. January 2017, Vol. 31, Issue 1, Pages 231-244. Active Managers are Skilled: On Average, They Add More Than $3 Million Per Year Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen. Journal of Portfolio Management. 2017, Vol. 42, Pages 131-139. Mutual Funds in Equilibrium Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen. Forthcoming: Annual Review of Financial Economics. 2017. Assessing Asset Pricing Models using Revealed Preference Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen. Forthcoming: Journal of Financial Economics. March 14, 2015. Measuring Skill in the Mutual Fund Industry Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen. Forthcoming: Journal of Financial Economics. August 14, 2014. Limited Capital Market Participation and Human Capital Risk Jonathan B. Berk, Johan Walden. Review of Asset Pricing Studies. 2014, Vol. 3, Issue 1, Pages 1-37. Human Capital, Bankruptcy and Capital Structure Jonathan B. Berk, Richard Stanton, Josef Zechner. Journal of Finance. 2009, Vol. 65, Pages 891-925. Managerial Ability, Compensation and the Closed-End Fund Discount Jonathan B. Berk, Richard Stanton. Journal of Finance. 2007, Vol. 62 , Issue 2, Pages 529-556. Five Myths of Active Portfolio Management Jonathan B. Berk. Journal of Portfolio Management. 2005, Vol. 31, Issue 3, Pages 27-31. Mutual Fund Flows and Performance in Rational Markets Jonathan B. Berk, Richard C. Green. Journal of Political Economy. 2004, Vol. 112, Issue 6, Pages 1269-1295. The Valuation and Return Dynamics of New Ventures Jonathan B. Berk, Richard C. Green, Vasant Naik. Review of Financial Studies. 2004, Vol. 17, Pages 1-35. Sorting Out Sorts Jonathan B. Berk. Journal of Finance. 2000, Vol. 55, Pages 407-427. A Simple Approach for Deciding when to Invest Jonathan B. Berk. American Economic Review. 1999, Vol. 89, Pages 1319-1326. Optimal Investment, Growth Options and Security Returns Jonathan B. Berk, Richard C. Green, Vasant Naik. The Journal of Finance. 1999, Vol. 54, Pages 1153-1607. Does Size Really Matter? Jonathan B. Berk. Financial Analysts Journal. 1997, Vol. 53, Pages 12-18. Necessary Conditions for the CAPM Jonathan B. Berk. Journal of Economic Theory. 1997, Vol. 73, Pages 245-257. The Acquisition of Information in a Dynamic Market Jonathan B. Berk. Economic Theory. 1997, Vol. 9, Pages 441-451. The Price is Right, But Are the Bids? An Empirical Investigation of Rational Decision Making Jonathan B. Berk, Eric Hughson, Kirk Vandezande. American Economic Review. 1996, Vol. 86, Pages 954-970. A Critique of Size Related Anomalies Jonathan B. Berk. Review of Financial Studies. 1995, Vol. 8, Pages 275-286. The Timing of Information in a General Equilibrium Framework Jonathan B. Berk, Harald Uhlig. Journal of Economic Theory. 1993, Vol. 59, Pages 275-287. Adjustable Rate Mortgages: Prepayment Behavior Jonathan B. Berk, Lynn Bartholomew, Richard Roll. The Housing Finance Review. 1988, Vol. 7, Pages 31-46. Adjustable Rate Mortgages: Valuation Jonathan B. Berk, Richard Roll. Journal of Real Estate Finance and Economics. 1988, Vol. 1, Pages 163-184. Books Fundamentals of Corporate Finance (4th edition) Jonathan B. Berk, Peter M. DeMarzo, Jarrad Harford Boston: Prentice Hall, 2018. Corporate Finance (4th edition) Jonathan B. Berk, Peter M. DeMarzo Boston: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2014. Working Papers Regulation of Charlatans in High-Skill Professions | PDF Jonathan B. Berk, Jules H. van Binsbergen, June 12017 Return Persistence and Fund Flows in the Worst Performing Mutual Funds | PDF Jonathan B. Berk, Ian Tonks, April 2007 Can Boundedly Rational Agents Make Optimal Decisions? A Natural Experiment | PDF Jonathan B. Berk, Eric N. Hughson, April 2006 An Empirical Re-examination of the Relation between Firm Size and Return Jonathan B. Berk2005 On the Asymptotic Behavior of the Yield Curve Jonathan B. Berk2004 Statistical Discrimination in a Labor Market with Job Selection | PDF Jonathan B. Berk, June 1995 Teaching Degree Courses 2020-21 FINANCE 205: Accelerated Managerial Finance This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions... FINANCE 346: Institutional Money Management The object of this course is to study the money management industry from the perspective of the user --- an investor who wants to invest money. This course will study the main components of the money management industry: mutual funds, hedge funds... 2019-20 FINANCE 205: Accelerated Managerial Finance This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions... 2018-19 FINANCE 205: Accelerated Managerial Finance (Lab-based Pilot) This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions... Stanford Case Studies Ameritor Mutual Funds: The "Dead Man Funds" | F276 Jonathan Berk, Debra Schifrin2011 T. Rowe Price, Building Wealth for the Long Term | F273 Jonathan Berk, Nate Blair2009 Conferences, Talks, and Speaking Engagements Video: Are Mutual Fund Managers Skilled?Jonathan Berk turns the efficient market hypothesis, which popularized the belief that mutual fund managers were "monkey investors" who consistently perform worse than the overall market, on its head to prove that mutual fund managers are in fact highly skilled investors.Service to the Profession Director, American Finance Association, 2013-2016Director, Western Finance Association, 2014-2016Academic Director, Financial Management Association, 2010-2013Advisory Board, The Journal of Portfolio Management, 2009-present Insights by Stanford Business writtenEconomists to Congress: Dont Bail out Big Business March 26, 2020 An open letter drafted by Stanford professors says the coronavirus stimulus package should benefit workers not corporations and their wealthy shareholders. writtenShould We Stop Licensing Doctors and Lawyers? March 2, 2018 A new study shows that professional certification requirements benefit providers more than consumers. writtenJonathan Berk: Are Mutual Fund Managers Skilled, Or Just Lucky? July 9, 2014 Research says top managers are good at what they do, yet most investors cant benefit from it. writtenIncentives and the Financial Crisis December 1, 2008 A finance professor argues that preventing financial crises means creating policies that align bankers' incentives with the public interest. School News writtenProfessor Jonathan B. Berk Honored With the Fifth Ross Prize in Financial Economics October 21, 2017 The Stephen A. Ross Prize has been awarded to the co-authors of an important 2004 paper on mutual funds equilibrium behavior. writtenSix Faculty Named to Endowed Chairs April 1, 2009 Professors Anat Admati, Jonathan Berk, Charles Jones, Dale Miller, Jesper Srensen, and Sarah Soule, have been honored with new academic titles. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
