William H. Beaver | Stanford Graduate School of Business Skip to main content The Experience Overview of Experience About Stanford GSB About Our Degree Programs About Us The Leadership Updates COVID-19 Information School News & History Voices Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Taking a Stand Against Racism Community Research & Insights Teaching Learning at Stanford GSB Faculty Guest Speakers Entrepreneurship Leadership Social Innovation Communication Life at Stanford GSB Collaborative Environment Activities & Organizations Student Services Housing Options International Students The Programs All Programs Full-Time Degree Programs MBA Why Stanford MBA Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid MSx Why Stanford MSx Curriculum Admission Financial Aid PhD Academic Experience Admission Financial Aid Research Fellows Program See All Programs Non-Degree & Certificate Programs Executive Education Stanford Executive Program Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations The Difference Admission Online Programs Stanford LEAD Stanford Innovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate Seed Transformation Program Admission Faculty & Research Overview of Faculty & Research Faculty Faculty Profiles Academic Areas Awards & Honors Seminars Conferences Voices Faculty Research Publications Working Papers Case Studies Books Research Hub Research Initiatives Business Library Behavioral Lab Centers & Institutes Stanford Seed Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Center for Social Innovation Insights All Topics Topics Accounting Big Data Career & Success Corporate Governance Economics Education Energy & Environment Entrepreneurship Finance Government Health Care Innovation Leadership Management Marketing Nonprofit Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Social Impact Supply Chain Subscribe Contact Alumni Overview of Alumni Welcome, Alumni Communities The Alumni Network Regional Chapters Womens Programs Diversity Chapters Find Your Reunion Featured Events Career Resources Job Search Resources Career & Life Transitions Programs & Services Career Video Library Research Resources Alumni Education Volunteering Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Voices Books Giving Contact Alumni Relations Email Directory Upcoming Events My Account Log In Events All Events Admission Events & Information Sessions MBA Program MSx Program PhD Program Seed Transformation Program Research Fellows Alumni Events All Other Events Enter the terms you wish to search for. Latest COVID-19 updates William H. Beaver In This Section Overview of Faculty & Research FacultyAll Faculty Profiles Academic AreasOverview of Our Academic Areas Accounting Economics Finance Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy Awards & Honors SeminarsOverview of Seminars Accounting CASI-Stigler Workshop Series Classical Liberalism Economics The Eddie Lunch Finance Industrial Organization Marketing Operations, Information & Technology Organizational Behavior Political Economy ConferencesOverview of Conferences Accounting Summer Camp Big-Data Initiative in Intl. Macro-Finance Rising Scholars Conference Voices Publications Books Working Papers Case Studies Centers & Research InitiativesOverview of Centers & Research Initiatives Center for Entrepreneurial StudiesOverview of Center for Entrepreneurial Studies ResearchOverview of Research Affiliated Faculty Search FundsOverview of Search Funds Search Fund Primer Teaching & Curriculum Faculty & StaffOverview of Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisors ContactView Contact Information Louis W. Foster Resource Center Center for Social InnovationOverview of Center for Social Innovation Defining Social Innovation Impact Compass ResearchOverview of Research Teaching & CurriculumOverview of Teaching & Curriculum Global Health Innovation Insight Series Faculty & Staff Contact Computational Marketing Lab Corporate Governance Research InitiativeOverview of Corporate Governance Research Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Stanford Closer Look Series Quick Guides Core Concepts Surveys Books Journal Articles Working Papers Case Studies Glossary of Terms Executive Education Faculty & Staff Contact Corporations and Society InitiativeOverview of Corporations and Society Initiative Affiliated Faculty Events Readings Energy Business InnovationsOverview of Energy Business Innovations Research Teaching & Curriculum Energy Entrepreneurship Directors & Faculty Contact Golub Capital Social Impact Lab Policy and Innovation InitiativeOverview of Policy and Innovation Initiative Reading Materials Courses Events Contact Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship InitiativeOverview of Stanford Latino Entrepreneurship Initiative Subscribe Value Chain Innovation InitiativeOverview of Value Chain Innovation Initiative ResearchOverview of Research Books Case Studies Publications Responsible Supply Chains Faculty & Staff ContactView Contact Information Subscribe Venture Capital InitiativeOverview of Venture Capital Initiative Contact the Venture Capital Initiative Research LabsOverview of Research Labs Behavioral LabOverview of Behavioral Lab Conduct ResearchOverview of Conduct Research Current Study Usage Pre-Registration Information Participate in a Study Faculty Publications Lab Staff Contact Real-Time Analysis and Investment LabOverview of Real-time Analysis and Investment Lab (RAIL) Lab Features Curricular Integration Faculty Contact RAIL Data, Analytics, and Research Computing You are hereFaculty & Research Faculty William H. Beaver William H. Beaver Professor Emeritus, AccountingContact InfoEmail WilliamH.BeaverThe Joan E. Horngren Professor of Accounting, EmeritusAcademic Area:AccountingBio William H. Beaver is widely recognized for his innovative research on how accounting information in corporate financial statements affects security prices. He was among the first to investigate financial ratios as predictors of business failure. His recent work has centered on public policy issues connected with government regulation of corporate financial disclosure. Academic DegreesMBA and PhD, University of Chicago, 1965BBA, University of Notre Dame, 1962CPA, 1969 (Illinois)Academic AppointmentsAt Stanford University since 1969Assistant Professor, University of Chicago, 1965-69Awards and HonorsTeaching Excellence Award, Stanford Graduate School of Business, PhD Student Program, 2004Teaching Excellence Award, Stanford Graduate School of Business, Sloan Student Program, 1999AAA Outstanding Educator Award, American Accounting Association, 1990Wildman Award for Outstanding Research, American Accounting Association, 1985Distinguished Teaching Award, Stanford Graduate School of Business MBA Students, 1985Publications Journal Articles Group Affiliation and Default Prediction William H. Beaver, Stefano Cascino, Maria Correia, Maureen McNichols. Management Science. May 8, 2019, Vol. 65, Issue 8, Pages 3559-3584. The Information Content of Earnings Announcements: New Insights from Intertemporal and Cross-Sectional Behavior William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Zach Z. Wang. Review of Accounting Studies. March 2018, Vol. 23, Issue 1, Pages 95-135. The Effects of Credit Default Swap Trading on Information Asymmetry in Syndicated Loans Dan Amiram, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman, Jianxin Zhao. Journal of Financial Economics. November 2017, Vol. 126, Issue 2, Pages 364-382. The Costs and Benefits of Long-Short Investing: A Perspective on the Market Efficiency Literature William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Richard Price. Journal of Accounting Literature. December 2016, Vol. 37, Pages 1-18. Financial Statement Analysis and the Prediction of Financial Distress William H. Beaver, Maria Correia, Maureen McNichols. Foundations and Trends in Accounting . January 2011, Vol. 5, Issue 2, Pages 99-173. An Alternative Interpretation for the Discontinuity in Earnings Distributions William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Karen K. Nelson. Review of Accounting Studies. 2007, Vol. 12, Issue 4, Pages 525-556. Delisting Returns and their Effect on Accounting-Based Market Anomalies William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Richard Price. Journal of Accounting and Economics. 2007, Vol. 43, Issue 23, Pages 341-368. Accruals, Accounting-Based Valuation Models and the Prediction of Equity Values Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, John R.M. Hand, Wayne R. Landsman. Journal of Accounting, Auditing, and Finance. October 2005, Vol. 20, Issue 4, Pages 311-345. Have Financial Statements Become Less Informative: Evidence From the Ability of Financial Ratios to Predict Bankruptcy William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Jung-Wu Rhie. Review of Accounting Studies. March 2005, Vol. 10, Issue 1, Pages 93-122. Management of the Loss Reserve Accrual and the Distribution of Earnings in the Property-Casualty Insurance Industry William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Karen K. Nelson. Journal of Accounting and Economics. August 2003, Vol. 35, Issue 3, Pages 347376. Do Stock Prices of Property Casualty Insurers Fully Reflect Information about Earnings, Accruals, Cash Flows, and Development? William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols. Review of Accounting Studies. June 2001, Vol. 6, Issue 2-3, Pages 197-220. The Relevance of the Value Relevance Literature for Financial Accounting Standard Setting: Another View Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman. Journal of Accounting and Economics. 2001, Vol. 31, Issue 13, Pages 77104. Biases and Lags in Book Value and Their Effects on the Ability of the Book-to-Market Ratio to Predict Book Return on Equity William H. Beaver, Stephen G. Ryan. Journal of Accounting Research. 2000, Vol. 38, Issue 1, Pages 127-148. Accruals, Cash Flows, and Equity Values Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, John R.M. Hand, Wayne R. Landsman. Review of Accounting Studies. December 1999, Vol. 4, Issue 3-4, Pages 205-229. The Characteristics and Valuation of Loss Reserves of Property Casualty Insurers William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols. Review of Accounting Studies. March 1998, Vol. 3, Issue 1-2, Pages 73-95. Relative Valuation Roles of Equity Book Value and Net Income as a Function of Financial Health Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman. Journal of Accounting and Economics. February 26, 1998, Vol. 25, Issue 1, Pages 1-34. Relative Valuation Roles of Equity Book Value and Net Income as a Function of Financial Health Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman. Journal of Accounting and Economics. February 1998, Vol. 25, Issue 1, Pages 134. Value-Relevance of Banks Fair Value Disclosures under SFAS 107 Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman. The Accounting Review. October 1996, Vol. 71, Issue 4, Pages 513-537. Structural Analysis of Pension Disclosures Under SFAS 87 and Their Relation to Share Prices Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman. Financial Analysts Journal. January 1993, Vol. 49, Issue 1, Pages 18-26. The Market Value Implications of Net Periodic Pension Cost Components Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne R. Landsman. Journal of Accounting and Economics. March 1992, Vol. 15, Issue 1, Pages 2762. Components of Bank Earnings and the Structure of Bank Share Prices Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Mark A. Wolfson. Financial Analysts Journal. 1990, Vol. 46, Issue 3, Pages 53-60. Financial Reporting, Supplemental Disclosures, and Bank Share Prices William H. Beaver, Carol Eger, Stephen Ryan, Mark A. Wolfson. Journal of Accounting Research. 1989, Vol. 27, Issue 2, Pages 157-178. The Nature of Income Measurement William H. Beaver, Joel S. Demski. Accounting Review. 1979, Vol. 54, Issue 1, Pages 38-46. Financial Ratios as Predictors of Failure William H. Beaver. Journal of Accounting Research. 1966, Vol. 4, Issue Empirical Research in Accounting: Selected Studies, Pages 71-111. Working Papers Increased Information Content of Earnings Announcements in the 21st Century: An Empirical Investigation | PDF Maureen McNichols, William H. Beaver, Zach Zhiguang Wang, November 92017 A Re-examination of the Informational Role of Earnings Announcements Maureen McNichols, William H. Beaver, Zach Wang, April 2017 Bankruptcy in Groups | PDF William H. Beaver, Stefano Cascino, Maria Correia, Maureen McNichols, December 2016 The Information Content of Earnings Announcements: New Insights from Intertemporal and Cross-Sectional Behavior | PDF William H. Beaver, Maureen McNichols, Zach Z. Wang, March 142015 Differential Properties in the Ratings of Certified vs. Non-Certified Bond Rating Agencies William H. Beaver, Catherine Shakespeare, Mark T. Soliman, June 2006 Do Firms Issuing Equity Manage their Earnings? Evidence from the Property-Casualty Insurance Industry | PDF Maureen McNichols, Karen Nelson, William H. Beaver2000 Management of the Loss Reserve Accrual and the Distribution of Earnings in the Property-Casualty Insurance Industry William H. Beaver, Karen Nelson, Maureen McNichols2000 Differential Pricing of the Discretionary and Nondiscretionary Components of Loan Fair Values | PDF William H. Beaver, Mohan Venkatachalam1998 Relative Valuation Roles of Equity Book Value and Net Income as a Function of Financial Health Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne Landsman1998 The Characteristics and Valuation of Loss Reserves of Property Casualty Insurers Maureen McNichols, William H. Beaver1998 Value-Relevance of Banks' Fair Value Disclosures under SFAS 107 Mary E. Barth, William H. Beaver, Wayne Landsman1995 The Association Between Unsystematic Security Returns and the Magnitude of Earnings Forecast Errors William H. Beaver, William Wright, Roger Clarke1978 Service to the Profession Editorial BoardsJournal of Accounting ResearchJournal of Accounting and EconomicsReview of Accounting Studies, 1969-present Professional AssociationsPresident, American Accounting Association, 1979-1981Member, American Accounting Association, 1969-presentMember, American Institute of CPAs, 1969-presentMember, SEC Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure Policy, 1969-present Insights by Stanford Business writtenAre Earnings Reports Obsolete? October 6, 2015 Its easier than ever to find up-to-the-minute data on companies. So why are investors in love with old-fashioned financial statements? writtenBeware: Corporate Financial Statements Decline in Predictive Value March 15, 2013 New research explores the value of financial and market data to ascertaining the likelihood of bankruptcy. writtenWhy You Shouldn't Discount Financial Statements November 1, 2005 New research shows that financial ratios are still quite effective at predicting bankruptcy. writtenResearch: The Bond-Rating System Isn't Broken April 1, 2005 Certified agencies may "miss" based on short-term news, but they still serve their purpose for large institutional investors. School News writtenProfessors Beaver, Soliman, DeMarzo Honored by Students May 1, 2004 Faculty were honored, respectively, by the PhD Student Association, MBA students, and students in the Sloan Masters Program. Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn 655 Knight Way Stanford, CA 94305 USA Companies, Organizations & Recruiters Stanford Community Newsroom Library Jobs MyGSB Contact Us Visit Us Stay In Touch Non-Discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Accessibility Terms of Use Stanford University Stanford Graduate School of Business
