Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Yu-Hwa Lo Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Professor Los research interests are biomedical devices and systems, bioelectronics, microfluidics, nanophotonics, and semiconductor nanoscaled devices. Core research areas for Professor Lo are biomedical electronic and optical devices and systems and nanoscaled semiconductor devices. His group designs biomedical devices and systems that combine microfluidic, photonic, acoustic, and electronic technologies for in-vitro and in-vivo diagnosis and prognosis for a variety of diseases including cancers, infectious diseases, and chronic diseases. One key objective of biomedical research in his group is to develop point-of-care devices that can drastically reduce healthcare cost and improve patient outcomes. To meet this objective, his group emphasizes translational research and collaborates with researchers and doctors frombiomedical industry andmedicine. Lo is also interested in new tool developments that can enable and accelerate discoveries in biological sciences. Such unique tools are fabricated using techniques of nanoengineering, microfluidics, and optoelectronics. They can benefit research in stem cells, cancers, and bacteria and microbes. Los group also makes significant efforts in the research of nanoscaled optoelectronics for biosensing, optical communications, and quantum communications. Projects include photodetectors that can detect single photons, the smallest quanta for light, and nanoscaled photonic devices made of silicon and compound semiconductors Capsule Bio:Professor Yu-Hwa Lo received his Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from UC Berkeley in 1987. He worked at Bellcore as a technical staff member from 1988-1990, and became an assistant and then associate professor of Cornell University from 1991 to 1999. He became a professor of UCSD in 1999 and has been the director of the Nano3 Facility (Nanoscience, Nanoengineering, and Nanomedicine) since 2005. Currently his research interests are in microfluidics and optofluidics, lab-on-a-chip devices for biomedicine, bio-imaging, nanophotonics, and semiconductor single-photon detectors. He has published around 350 papers and 8 book chapters and been awarded 22 patents. He is a fellow of the Optical Society of America and the IEEE. Email:ylo@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-3429WebsiteLab WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
