Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Dinesh Bharadia Asst Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering Communication theory, signal processing, full duplex, wireless communication systems, low-power Internet of Things, wireless imaging/sensing, and wireless networks. Bharadia's research aims to innovate fundamental ideas in communication theory and translate them to build practical wireless communication systems, low power wireless communication system (IoT), wireless imaging/sensing and wireless networks. This involves understanding hardware/system challenges in achieving the above fundamental ideas and then designing algorithms to overcome the hardware limitation in translating the ideas to the practical systems. Bharadia has built systems for first full duplex radios (which was considered impossible), indoor navigation using standard WiFi, wireless virtual reality headsets, human-motion tracking systems using wireless signals, and battery-less ECG wireless sensors. Capsule Bio: Dinesh Bharadia received his Ph.D. in 2016 from Stanford University, where he was advised by Professor Sachin Katti. He is currently a Postdoctoral Associate at MIT working with Professors Dina Katabi and Mohammad Alizadeh. In his dissertation, Bharadia presented a prototype of a radio that invalidated a long held assumption in wireless research that radios cannot transmit and receive at the same time on the same frequency. In recognition of his work, Bharadia was named a Marconi Young Scholar for outstanding wireless research and was awarded the Michael Dukakis Leadership award. He was also named as one of the top 35 Innovators under 35 in the world by MIT Technology Review in 2016. Bharadia is also a recipient of the Sarah and Thomas Kailath Stanford Graduate Fellowship. From 2013 to 2015, Bharadia was a Principal Scientist for Kumu Networks, where he worked to commercialize his research on full-duplex radios, building a product that underwent successful field trials at Tier 1 network providers worldwide like Deutsche Telekom and SK Telecom. This product is currently under deployment. His research interests include advancing the theory and design of modern wireless communication systems, wireless imaging, sensor networks and data-center networks. Bharadia received his bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur in 2010, where he received the gold medal for graduating at the top of his class. His research has been published at top conferences such as SIGCOMM, NSDI, MobiCom and has been cited over 2,000 times. At UC San Diego, he will be teaching core courses in wireless communication, IoT networks, and networked systems building. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:dbharadia@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0168Website Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
