Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Ian A. Galton Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Data converters, frequency synthesizers, clock-recovery systems, digital signal processing (DSP) techniques to mitigate the effects of non-ideal analog circuit behavior in mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) implemented in CMOS (silicon chips). Ian Galton manages the Integrated Signal Processing Group at UCSD. The group's research objective is to generate enabling technology for highly integrated, low-cost, communication systems. The research involves the invention, development, analysis, and CMOS integrated circuit implementation of key communication system blocks such as data converters, frequency synthesizers, and clock recovery systems. The emphasis of the research is on the development of digital signal processing techniques to mitigate the effects of non-ideal analog circuit behavior in mixed-signal (combined analog and digital) integrated circuits. The resulting circuits tend to blur the traditionally sharp analog-digital dividing lines in communication systems in order to reduce the precision requirements of the analog circuitry. Capsule Bio:Ian Galton received the Sc.B. degree from Brown University in 1984, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the California Institute of Technology in 1989 and 1992, respectively, all in electrical engineering. Since 1996 he has been a professor of electrical engineering at the University of California, San Diego where he teaches and conducts research in the field of mixed-signal integrated circuits and systems for communications. Prior to 1996 he was with UC Irvine, and prior to 1989 he was with Acuson and Mead Data Central. His research involves the invention, analysis, and integrated circuit implementation of critical communication system blocks such as data converters, frequency synthesizers, and clock recovery systems. In addition to his academic research, he regularly consults at several semiconductor companies and teaches industry-oriented short courses on the design of mixed-signal integrated circuits. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, and has served on a corporate Board of Directors, on several corporate Technical Advisory Boards, as the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Analog and Digital Signal Processing, as a member of the IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Administrative Committee, as a member of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society Board of Governors, as a member of the IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference Technical Program Committee, and as a member of the IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Distinguished Lecturer Program. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:iagalton@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-1332WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Center for Wireless Communications California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
