Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile George C. Papen Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty-Affiliate, Calit2 Advanced photonic systems including optical communication systems, optical networking, and environmental and atmospheric remote sensing. Professor Papen's initial work in optical components and systems evolved into cross-disciplinary research and publications in a wide range of areas. Early on, he developed novel optical remote sensing systems (lidars), such as one to characterize the upper atmosphere at the South Pole. Multiple grants from NASA funded Papen's work, including demonstration of the first fiber-based lidar system to measure water vapor. His research has also yielded new techniques for reducing an inherent limitation on the amount of power that can be launched within a fiber, either for remote sensing systems or for communications systems; a patent on the technique has been filed, and a startup company created to commercialize the technology. Papen's current research has shifted from remote atmospheric sensing to photonics and fiber optic communications. One project funded by DARPA explores the application of diversity techniques (used most often to combat random signal degradation in "noisy" communication channels) to less-noisy optical computing systems to increase reliability and reduce overall power. He is developing the ECE department's first lab course dedicated to fiber optics. Papen is also interested in distance learning, and is experimenting with methods to let students do experiments remotely by accessing modern lab equipment online. Capsule Bio:George Papen joined the UCSD faculty in September 2002 from a full professorship at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He arrived at UIUC in 1989 after earning his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Wisconsin. He has been actively involved in professional associations, and chaired recent conferences including the OSA Optical Remote Sensing Conference and High Speed Interconnects within Digital Systems conference, both in 2001. He is a co-holder of three patents. Email:gpapen@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-1728Institute Affiliations:California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
