Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Behrouz Touri Asst Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringAsst Professor, Calit2 Network control systems, stochastic control, optimization, distributed computation, distributed optimization, game theory, multi-agent systems, dynamics of biological networks, population games, learning theory Behrouz Touri is interested in dynamics that evolveover time-varying and/or random networks. Examples of such dynamics include opinion dynamics over social networks, spread of a contagious disease over a contact network, dynamics of complex biological networks, and various topics on control and dynamics of power grid networks. He is also interested in optimization theory and its applications in machine learning, home energy systems managementand biological networks. Touri's research also focuses on game theory and, in particular, population games and the theory of learning on games. Capsule Bio:Behrouz Touriis an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California San Diego. Prior to this, he was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical, Computer, and Energy Engineering at the University of Colorado Boulder from 2014 to 2017. Touri got his B.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering from the Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan, Iran in 2006, and received his M.Sc. from the Jacobs University Bremen, Bremen, Germany, in 2008. Touri got his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign in 2011. His Ph.D. thesis titled Product of Random Stochastic Matrices and Distributed Averaging has appeared in the Springer Theses Series, recognizing outstanding Ph.D. theses in science and engineering. From 2011 to 2013, he was a postdoctoral researcher at the Coordinated Science Laboratory at the University of Illinois, and from 2013 to 2014, he was a postdoctoral researcher atthe School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is a recipient of a 2016AFOSR Young Investigator Awardand was a finalist for the best student paper award of the 2010 IEEE Conference on Decision and Controlin Atlanta, Georgia. He is the recipient of the prestigious 2018 Donald P. Eckman Award from the American Control Council. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:btouri@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-7999 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
