Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Alon Orlitsky Professor, Electrical and Computer EngineeringFaculty, Calit2Faculty, Calit2Faculty, Computer Science and Engineering Communications and information theory, with particular interests in signal processing, data compression, speech recognition and learning theory. While Professor Orlitsky is a theorist, his research deals with concrete communication scenarios. Orlitsky is actively studying interactive communication: if sender and receiver interact, they can reduce the number of bits that must be transmitted. That's essentially what happens when you view a Web page for which you have downloaded a previous version; the server doesn't have to send all the bits each time. Orlitsky also studies "communication complexity." How many bits must two communicators exchange to determine if their versions of a file are identical? Or two seismic stations to determine the location of an earthquake? His work in speech processing and recognition is of both practical and theoretical interest. Orlitsky is looking at information-theoretic approaches to speech processing, touching on issues including recognition, compression, and synthesis. His work in learning theory is primarily about online learning, and he maintains an interest in investment theory based on the work he did as a quantitative analyst for a Wall Street investment firm (see bio). Orlitsky teaches information theory and algebraic coding in ECE, and discrete mathematics in the Computer Science and Engineering department. Capsule Bio:Alon Orlitsky joined the UCSD faculty in 1997. He is the founding director of UCSD's Information Theory and Applications Center and holds the QUALCOMM Endowed Chair in Information Theory and Its Applications. Before joining UCSD, Orlitsky served two years as a quantitative analyst for D.E. Shaw and Co. From 1986-1996, he was a member of the technical staff at AT&T Bell Labs' Mathematical Sciences Research Center. Orlitsky received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 1986, and his M.Sc., also from Stanford, in 1982. He did his undergraduate work in mathematics (B.Sc. 1980) and Electrical Engineering (B.Sc. 1981) at Israel's Ben-Gurion University. His honors include an ITT International Fellowship in 1982, and an IEEE W.R.G. Baker best-paper award in 1992. Orlitsky co-edited a book on "Theoretical advances in neural computation and learning," (1994, Kluwer Academic Publishing). Email:aorlitsky@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0228WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Director, Information Theory and Applications CenterMember, California Institute for Telecommunications and Information TechnologyMember, Center for Wireless Communications Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
