Kevin Plis | Department of Computer Science | The University of Vermont Jump to navigation Please turn on Javascript for added functionality apply Search myUVM Search Website Search Directory A to Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Return to Campus Department of Computer Science Department of Computer Science About UsVision, Mission, and Goals Department News Prospective Student Resources Undergraduate ProgramsOverview of Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Advising Computer Science (B.S.) Computer Science and Information Systems (B.S.) Computer Science (B.A.) Data Science (B.S.) Minor in Computer Science Minor in CS Education Certificate in Computer Software Accelerated Masters (M.S.) Graduate ProgramsOverview of Graduate Programs Computer Science (M.S.) Complex Systems and Data Science (M.S.) Computer Science (Ph.D.) Certificate of Graduate Study in Complex Systems Complex Systems and Data Science (CSDS), PhD Graduate Student Profiles Accelerated Masters (M.S.) Courses Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Graduate Faculty Faculty Policies Career & Internship Opportunities Contact Us College of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences menu Department of Computer Science Kevin Plis Lecturer Originally from Ohio, Kevin earned a B.S in CS at Bowling Green State University and his Master's in CS at Ohio University where he specialized in Bioinformatic and Medical applications of Machine Learning. He also has industry experience, mainly in web application development and databases. Before joining UVM, he taught in South Carolina for 4 years, teaching courses on Software Development in Java, Software Engineering, Databases, and Microsoft Office.Outside of work, Kevin can be found making life changing decisions based on whatever documentary he recently watched on Netflix and pretending that he will someday learn how to play the Banjo. Areas of Expertise and/or Research Computer Science Education Education M.S., Computer Science - Ohio University B.S., Computer Science - Bowling Green State University Contact Email: Kevin.Plis@uvm.edu Office Location: E304 Discovery Courses Taught CS 021 - Computer Programming I: PythonCS 124 - Data Structures and Algorithms The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131 Contact UVM Accessibility Privacy/Terms of Use 2020
