Ryan S. McGinnis | Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering | The University of Vermont Jump to navigation Please turn on Javascript for added functionality apply Search myUVM Search Website Search Directory A to Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Return to Campus Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering Electrical EngineeringAccreditation Electrical Engineering (B.S.) Minor in Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering (M.S., Ph.D.) Accelerated Masters (M.S.) Senior Experience in Engineering Design (SEED) Labs Courses Biomedical EngineeringAccreditation Biomedical Engineering (B.S.) Biomedical Engineering (M.S) Bioengineering (Ph.D.) Senior Experience in Engineering Design (SEED) Labs Courses Center for Biomedical Innovation Student Organizations Faculty & Staff Contact Us College of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences menu Department of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering Ryan S. McGinnis Assistant Professor and Assistant Director Dr. McGinnis earned his BS degree from Lafayette College in 2009 and his MS and PhD degrees from the University of Michigan in 2012 and 2013. He has led cross-disciplinary research teams at health technology start-ups and in academia to advance his translational research agenda which pairs innovations in wearable and mobile technologies with his expertise in biomedical signal processing, machine learning, biomechanics, and computational dynamics for the development and validation of novel digital biomarkers and therapeutics. In support of this research agenda, Dr. McGinnis has published over 85 peer-reviewed articles and has presented at national and international conferences (see CV). Many of his studies have been conducted with collaborators across a wide array of disciplines including neurology, physical therapy, mental health, and orthopedics. His work has been commercialized to form the heart of product offerings from seven companies, and he currently serves as a scientific advisor for several companies operating in the health technology space. His current efforts are focused on developing new digital therapeutics for improving the mobility and functional independence of individuals living with multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease, optimizing orthopedic rehabilitation outcomes, and addressing mental health problems in children and young adults. Areas of Expertise and/or Research Digital Health, mHealth, Wearables, Biomedical Signal Processing, Machine Learning, Biomechanics, Computational Dynamics Education B.S., Mechanical Engineering, Lafayette College MSE, Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan PhD, Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan CV Ryan's CV Contact Email: Ryan.McGinnis@uvm.edu Office Location: Votey 353 Website(s): M-Sense Research Group Courses Taught BME 001 - Intro to Biomedical Eng Design ME 012 - Dynamics ME 111 - System Dynamics BME 081 - Biomedical Eng Lab I BME 151 - Fall BME Workshop EE 100 - Electrical Engr Concepts BME 296/EE 295 - Wearable Snsng in Biomechanics The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131 Contact UVM Accessibility Privacy/Terms of Use 2020
