Fotini Christia | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Fotini Christia Professor of Political Science Director, MIT Sociotechnical Systems Research Center (SSRC) cfotini@mit.edu E53-417 617-324-5595 Website CV Civil wars; political violence; identity politics; post-conflict reconstruction; field experiments; big data; Middle East. Biography Fotini Christia is a Professor of Political Science and Director of the MIT Sociotechnical Systems Research Center (SSRC). She received her PhD in Public Policy from Harvard University in 2008 and has been awarded an inaugural Andrew Carnegie fellowship anda Harvard Academy fellowship among others. Her research interests deal with issues of conflict and cooperation in the Muslim world, and she has worked out of Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Iraq, Yemen and the Palestinian Territories. Her book, Alliance Formation in Civil Wars, published by Cambridge University Press in 2012, was awarded the Luebbert Award for Best Book in Comparative Politics, the Lepgold Prize for Best Book in International Relations and the Distinguished Book Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association. Her research has also appeared inScience, Review of Economic Studies, Journal of Development Economics,American Political Science Review, andJournal of Comparative Politics, among other journals. Fotini Christia has written opinion pieces forForeign Affairs, The New York Times, The Washington PostandThe Boston Globe. She graduated magna cum laude with a joint BA in Economics-Operations Research and a Masters in International Affairs from Columbia University in 2001. Research Fotini has done extensive experimental, survey, and ethnographic fieldwork on ethnicity, conflict, and development in divided societies in the Muslim world. She has completed impact evaluations of an experimental design on the largest community driven development program in Afghanistan and on school integration in Bosnia-Herzegovina. She has done survey and experimental research on religion and sectarianism in Iraq and is working with Cellphone Data Records from Yemen and Turkey, exploring drone strikes in the former and Syrian refugee integration in the latter. Fotini is the author ofAlliance Formation in Civil War,published by Cambridge University Press in 2012, which received the Luebbert Award for Best Book in Comparative Politics, the Lepgold Prize for Best Book in International Relations and the Distinguished Book Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association. She was also an inaugural Andrew Carnegie Fellow and a Harvard Academy Fellow. Her articles have been published inScience,Review of Economic Studies, Journal of Development Economics, American Political Science Review, Annual Review of Political ScienceandJournal of Comparative Politics,among other journals. For her research, Fotini has received support from a MURI grant, as well as from the International Growth Center, the Russell Sage Foundation, USAID, CIDA, the UN, and the World Bank among others. Recent Publications State Capacity Redux: Integrating Classical and Experimental Contributions to an Enduring Debate, Annual Review of Political Science (ARPS), Vol.21, 2018 (with Elissa Berwick). Direct Democracy and Resource Allocation: Experimental Evidence from Afghanistan, Journal ofDevelopment Economics (JDE), 124, 199-213 (with Andrew Beath and Ruben Enikolopov) Electoral Rules and Political Selection: Theory and Evidence from a Field Experiment in Afghanistan, The Review of Economic Studies (ReStud), 83 (3), 932-968. (With Andrew Beath, Georgy Egorov and Ruben Enikolopov) Empowering Women through Development Aid: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Afghanistan, American Political Science Review. 107 (3): 540-557. (With Andrew Beath and Ruben Enikolopov) "Alliance Formation in Civil Wars," Cambridge University Press, 2012. Context Modularity of Human Altruism, Science. 334 (6061): 1392-1394. (With Marc Alexander) Teaching 17.586 Comparative Politics and International Relations of the Middle East 17.504 Ethnic Politics I 17.582 Civil War 17.583 Conflict through the Graphic Novel 17.586 Warlords, Terrorists and Militias 17.869 Scope and Methods 17. 956 Insurgency News Fotini Christia named director of the Sociotechnical Systems Research Center October 14, 2020 Terri Park MIT Schwarzman College of Computing Fotini Christia on new deal-making in Afghanistan April 2, 2020 Michelle English Center for International Studies MIT professor of political science discusses a new U.S.-Taliban agreement and whether it will bring peace to the Afghan people. The Geography of Gulenism in Turkey March 18, 2019 Tugba Bozcaga, Fotini Christia Foreign Policy As trials against the Gulen movement wrap up, a look at how deep its influence really was. Fotini Christia's research featured in KellogInsight, Why Certain Types of Elections Favor Extreme Candidates June 7, 2018 KellogInsight Turkish referendum rallies in Europe made headlines. Did they affect election results? May 6, 2017 Tugba Bozcaga and Fotini Christia Washington Post Turkeys recent referendum, which ended its parliamentary system by transferring all executive powers to the president, has been a source of contention within its borders, as well as outside them. Fotini Christia and Ali Jadbabaie on researching the dynamics of sociopolitcal change October 14, 2016 Leda Zimmerman School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Borders between disciplines at MIT have proven increasingly permeable in recent years. Now, with the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society (IDSS), researchers in the social sciences have a powerful platform for collaborating with peers in engineering and the natural sciences. Fotini Christia, associate professor of political science, and the grants principal investigator Ali Jadbabaie, recently named JR East Professor of Engineering in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, associate director of IDSS, and director of the Sociotechnical Systems Research Center (SSRC), discuss one such shared collaboration. Fotini Christia: Discusses her research October 1, 2011 Fotini Christia: Discusses her current research Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Fotini Christia is a Professor of Political Science and Director of the MIT Sociotechnical Systems Research Center (SSRC). She received her PhD in Public Policy from Harvard University in 2008 and has been awarded an inaugural Andrew Carnegie fellowship anda Harvard Academy fellowship among others. Her research interests deal with issues of conflict and cooperation in the Muslim world, and she has worked out of Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Iraq, Yemen and the Palestinian Territories. Her book, Alliance Formation in Civil Wars, published by Cambridge University Press in 2012, was awarded the Luebbert Award for Best Book in Comparative Politics, the Lepgold Prize for Best Book in International Relations and the Distinguished Book Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association. Her research has also appeared inScience, Review of Economic Studies, Journal of Development Economics,American Political Science Review, andJournal of Comparative Politics, among other journals. Fotini Christia has written opinion pieces forForeign Affairs, The New York Times, The Washington PostandThe Boston Globe. She graduated magna cum laude with a joint BA in Economics-Operations Research and a Masters in International Affairs from Columbia University in 2001. Research Fotini has done extensive experimental, survey, and ethnographic fieldwork on ethnicity, conflict, and development in divided societies in the Muslim world. She has completed impact evaluations of an experimental design on the largest community driven development program in Afghanistan and on school integration in Bosnia-Herzegovina. She has done survey and experimental research on religion and sectarianism in Iraq and is working with Cellphone Data Records from Yemen and Turkey, exploring drone strikes in the former and Syrian refugee integration in the latter. Fotini is the author ofAlliance Formation in Civil War,published by Cambridge University Press in 2012, which received the Luebbert Award for Best Book in Comparative Politics, the Lepgold Prize for Best Book in International Relations and the Distinguished Book Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association. She was also an inaugural Andrew Carnegie Fellow and a Harvard Academy Fellow. Her articles have been published inScience,Review of Economic Studies, Journal of Development Economics, American Political Science Review, Annual Review of Political ScienceandJournal of Comparative Politics,among other journals. For her research, Fotini has received support from a MURI grant, as well as from the International Growth Center, the Russell Sage Foundation, USAID, CIDA, the UN, and the World Bank among others. Recent Publications State Capacity Redux: Integrating Classical and Experimental Contributions to an Enduring Debate, Annual Review of Political Science (ARPS), Vol.21, 2018 (with Elissa Berwick). Direct Democracy and Resource Allocation: Experimental Evidence from Afghanistan, Journal ofDevelopment Economics (JDE), 124, 199-213 (with Andrew Beath and Ruben Enikolopov) Electoral Rules and Political Selection: Theory and Evidence from a Field Experiment in Afghanistan, The Review of Economic Studies (ReStud), 83 (3), 932-968. (With Andrew Beath, Georgy Egorov and Ruben Enikolopov) Empowering Women through Development Aid: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Afghanistan, American Political Science Review. 107 (3): 540-557. (With Andrew Beath and Ruben Enikolopov) "Alliance Formation in Civil Wars," Cambridge University Press, 2012. Context Modularity of Human Altruism, Science. 334 (6061): 1392-1394. (With Marc Alexander) Teaching 17.586 Comparative Politics and International Relations of the Middle East 17.504 Ethnic Politics I 17.582 Civil War 17.583 Conflict through the Graphic Novel 17.586 Warlords, Terrorists and Militias 17.869 Scope and Methods 17. 956 Insurgency News Fotini Christia named director of the Sociotechnical Systems Research Center October 14, 2020 Terri Park MIT Schwarzman College of Computing Fotini Christia on new deal-making in Afghanistan April 2, 2020 Michelle English Center for International Studies MIT professor of political science discusses a new U.S.-Taliban agreement and whether it will bring peace to the Afghan people. The Geography of Gulenism in Turkey March 18, 2019 Tugba Bozcaga, Fotini Christia Foreign Policy As trials against the Gulen movement wrap up, a look at how deep its influence really was. Fotini Christia's research featured in KellogInsight, Why Certain Types of Elections Favor Extreme Candidates June 7, 2018 KellogInsight Turkish referendum rallies in Europe made headlines. Did they affect election results? May 6, 2017 Tugba Bozcaga and Fotini Christia Washington Post Turkeys recent referendum, which ended its parliamentary system by transferring all executive powers to the president, has been a source of contention within its borders, as well as outside them. Fotini Christia and Ali Jadbabaie on researching the dynamics of sociopolitcal change October 14, 2016 Leda Zimmerman School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Borders between disciplines at MIT have proven increasingly permeable in recent years. Now, with the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society (IDSS), researchers in the social sciences have a powerful platform for collaborating with peers in engineering and the natural sciences. Fotini Christia, associate professor of political science, and the grants principal investigator Ali Jadbabaie, recently named JR East Professor of Engineering in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, associate director of IDSS, and director of the Sociotechnical Systems Research Center (SSRC), discuss one such shared collaboration. Fotini Christia: Discusses her research October 1, 2011 Fotini Christia: Discusses her current research Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
