Charles Stewart III | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Charles Stewart III Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science cstewart@mit.edu E53-449 617-253-3127 Website CV Elections; Congress; American politics. Biography Charles Stewart III is the Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science at MIT, where he has taught since 1985, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His research and teaching areas include congressional politics, elections, and American political development. His current research about Congress touches on the historical development of committees, origins of partisan polarization, and Senate elections. His recent books of congressional research include Electing the Senate (2014, with Wendy J. Schiller), Fighting for the Speakership (2012, with Jeffery A. Jenkins), and Analyzing Congress (2nd ed., 2011). Since 2001, Professor Stewart has been a member of the Caltech/MIT Voting Technology Project, a leading research effort that applies scientific analysis to questions about election technology, election administration, and election reform. He is currently the MIT director of the project. Professor Stewart is an established leader in the analysis of the performance of election systems and the quantitative assessment of election performance. Working with the Pew Charitable Trusts, he helped with the development of Pews Elections Performance Index. Professor Stewart also provided advice to the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. His research on measuring the performance of elections and polling place operations is funded by Pew, the Democracy Fund, and the Hewlett Foundation. He recently published The Measure of American Elections (2014, with Barry C. Burden). With the support of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Democracy Fund, and the Joyce Foundation, in 2017 Professor Stewart established the MIT Election Data and Science Lab, which applies scientific principles to how elections are studied and administered. In 2020, he partnered with Professor Nate Persily of the Stanford Law School to establish the Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project. Professor Stewart has been recognized at MIT for his undergraduate teaching, being named to the second class of MacVicar Fellows in 1994, awarded the Baker Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, and the recipient of the Class of 1960 Fellowship. From 1992 to 2015, he served as Head of House of McCormick Hall, along with his spouse, Kathryn M. Hess. Research Fighting for the Speakership explores the development of the formal structure of political parties in Congress through the politics of electing Speakers of the House from 1789 to the present. This joint project with Jeffrey A. Jenkins (Virginia) combines historical narrative with modern analytical theory and statistical methods to explain how the House evolved from a series of ad hoc organizational arrangements to a resilient regime of legislative organization focused on party caucuses. Senate elections before 1914 is a joint project with Wendy Schiller (Brown) to document and explain the election of U.S. senators before the passage of the 17th amendment. This NSF-funded project involves uncovering data about these elections through the examination of state legislative journals and primary historical sources. The project combines historical narrative with statistical analysis of election dynamics. Measuring the performance of American elections is a project to assess the quality of elections through the development of metrics that describe how well American states perform all the functions that go into running elections well, ranging from registering voters to counting votes. This project involves collaborations with many scholars and institutions, particularly at Harvard, Caltech, and the Pew Center on the States Election Initiatives program Recent Publications Electing the Senate, with Wendy J. Schiller. (Princeton University Press, 2014). The Measure of American Elections, with Barry C. Burden, eds. (Cambridge University Press, 2014). Fighting for the Speakership, with Jeffrey A. Jenkins. (Princeton University Press, 2012). Analyzing Congress, W.W. Norton, 2nd edition. (W. W. Norton & Company, 2011) Committees in the U.S. Congress, with Garrison Nelson. (CQ Press, 2010). Teaching 17.202 Graduate Seminar in American Politics II (OCW) 17.251 Introduction to Congressional Politics (OCW) 17.261 Congress and the American Political System II (OCW) 17.307 Policy Seminar for Washington Interns 17.871 Political Science Laboratory (OCW) News So, Did Bad Things Happen With the Election in Philadelphia? November 19, 2020 By Nathaniel Persily and Charles Stewart III The New York Times Despite President Trumps message, the evidence shows no signs of fraud. Charles Stewart III on Donald Trump's strategy November 12, 2020 The World Today The 2020 Election Meltdown That Didnt Happen, Even Amid the Covid Pandemic November 6, 2020 Nathaniel Persily and Charles Stewart III The Wall Street Journal Administrators and ordinary citizens came together to make a fair, safe and secure national vote possible. Charles Stewart III discusses the U.S. Elections with Waqar Rizvi on Scope November 5, 2020 INDUS News The experience of people with lower incomes is that the world is stacked against them more often. Charles Stewart III October 29, 2020 Nancy Marshall-Genzer Marketplace Lower-income voters less confident in accurate count, poll finds Keep calm and let the election officials carry on October 27, 2020 Charles H. Stewart III and Michael Caudell-Feagan The Hill The enormous interest in the 2020 election is plagued by anxiety that election officials are not ready for the tidal wave of mail-in and drop-off ballots already coming in and the crush of in-person votes to be cast and counted. Although we cant say how the system will acquit itself on Nov. 3, we do know that local officials are better prepared to weather the storm than they were 20 years ago. Doomsday Scenarios Abound, But The Next President Will Be Decided By The Voters. Not The Courts, Not Congress October 20, 2020 Charles Stewart III WBUR Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Charles Stewart III is the Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science at MIT, where he has taught since 1985, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His research and teaching areas include congressional politics, elections, and American political development. His current research about Congress touches on the historical development of committees, origins of partisan polarization, and Senate elections. His recent books of congressional research include Electing the Senate (2014, with Wendy J. Schiller), Fighting for the Speakership (2012, with Jeffery A. Jenkins), and Analyzing Congress (2nd ed., 2011). Since 2001, Professor Stewart has been a member of the Caltech/MIT Voting Technology Project, a leading research effort that applies scientific analysis to questions about election technology, election administration, and election reform. He is currently the MIT director of the project. Professor Stewart is an established leader in the analysis of the performance of election systems and the quantitative assessment of election performance. Working with the Pew Charitable Trusts, he helped with the development of Pews Elections Performance Index. Professor Stewart also provided advice to the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. His research on measuring the performance of elections and polling place operations is funded by Pew, the Democracy Fund, and the Hewlett Foundation. He recently published The Measure of American Elections (2014, with Barry C. Burden). With the support of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Democracy Fund, and the Joyce Foundation, in 2017 Professor Stewart established the MIT Election Data and Science Lab, which applies scientific principles to how elections are studied and administered. In 2020, he partnered with Professor Nate Persily of the Stanford Law School to establish the Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project. Professor Stewart has been recognized at MIT for his undergraduate teaching, being named to the second class of MacVicar Fellows in 1994, awarded the Baker Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, and the recipient of the Class of 1960 Fellowship. From 1992 to 2015, he served as Head of House of McCormick Hall, along with his spouse, Kathryn M. Hess. Research Fighting for the Speakership explores the development of the formal structure of political parties in Congress through the politics of electing Speakers of the House from 1789 to the present. This joint project with Jeffrey A. Jenkins (Virginia) combines historical narrative with modern analytical theory and statistical methods to explain how the House evolved from a series of ad hoc organizational arrangements to a resilient regime of legislative organization focused on party caucuses. Senate elections before 1914 is a joint project with Wendy Schiller (Brown) to document and explain the election of U.S. senators before the passage of the 17th amendment. This NSF-funded project involves uncovering data about these elections through the examination of state legislative journals and primary historical sources. The project combines historical narrative with statistical analysis of election dynamics. Measuring the performance of American elections is a project to assess the quality of elections through the development of metrics that describe how well American states perform all the functions that go into running elections well, ranging from registering voters to counting votes. This project involves collaborations with many scholars and institutions, particularly at Harvard, Caltech, and the Pew Center on the States Election Initiatives program Recent Publications Electing the Senate, with Wendy J. Schiller. (Princeton University Press, 2014). The Measure of American Elections, with Barry C. Burden, eds. (Cambridge University Press, 2014). Fighting for the Speakership, with Jeffrey A. Jenkins. (Princeton University Press, 2012). Analyzing Congress, W.W. Norton, 2nd edition. (W. W. Norton & Company, 2011) Committees in the U.S. Congress, with Garrison Nelson. (CQ Press, 2010). Teaching 17.202 Graduate Seminar in American Politics II (OCW) 17.251 Introduction to Congressional Politics (OCW) 17.261 Congress and the American Political System II (OCW) 17.307 Policy Seminar for Washington Interns 17.871 Political Science Laboratory (OCW) News So, Did Bad Things Happen With the Election in Philadelphia? November 19, 2020 By Nathaniel Persily and Charles Stewart III The New York Times Despite President Trumps message, the evidence shows no signs of fraud. Charles Stewart III on Donald Trump's strategy November 12, 2020 The World Today The 2020 Election Meltdown That Didnt Happen, Even Amid the Covid Pandemic November 6, 2020 Nathaniel Persily and Charles Stewart III The Wall Street Journal Administrators and ordinary citizens came together to make a fair, safe and secure national vote possible. Charles Stewart III discusses the U.S. Elections with Waqar Rizvi on Scope November 5, 2020 INDUS News The experience of people with lower incomes is that the world is stacked against them more often. Charles Stewart III October 29, 2020 Nancy Marshall-Genzer Marketplace Lower-income voters less confident in accurate count, poll finds Keep calm and let the election officials carry on October 27, 2020 Charles H. Stewart III and Michael Caudell-Feagan The Hill The enormous interest in the 2020 election is plagued by anxiety that election officials are not ready for the tidal wave of mail-in and drop-off ballots already coming in and the crush of in-person votes to be cast and counted. Although we cant say how the system will acquit itself on Nov. 3, we do know that local officials are better prepared to weather the storm than they were 20 years ago. Doomsday Scenarios Abound, But The Next President Will Be Decided By The Voters. Not The Courts, Not Congress October 20, 2020 Charles Stewart III WBUR Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
