F. Daniel Hidalgo | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD F. Daniel Hidalgo Associate Professor of Political Science dhidalgo@mit.edu E53-402 617-253-8078 Website CV Latin America; political institutions; representation; accountability; clientelism; causal inference; elections. Biography F. Daniel Hidalgo is the Cecil and Ida Green Associate Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He received his doctorate in Political Science at the University of California at Berkeley and received a BA at Princeton University. Hidalgo is a past recipient of grants from the National Science Foundation, the Fulbright program, and the Experiments in Governance and Politics Network. His research focuses on the political economy of elections, campaigns, and representation in developing democracies, especially in Latin America, as well as quantitative methods in the social sciences. His work has appeared in journals such as the Journal of Politics, Review of Economic and Statistics, World Development, Political Analysis, and the American Journal of Political Science. Research Hidalgo's research focuses on political representation and electoral behavior in poor and middle-income democracies, as well as applied quantitative methods in the social sciences. His current substantive research interests include the political consequences of fraud-reducing electoral reforms, the politics of natural disasters, and the role of money in politics. Hidalgo's methodological interests focus on the statistics of causal inference and the application of machine learning techniques to new forms of political data, such as images and text. Recent Publications "Controlling the Airwaves: Incumbency Advantage and Community Radio in Brazil" (with Taylor Boas), American Journal of Political Science. Forthcoming. "Economic Determinants of Land Invasions" (with Suresh Naidu, Simeon Nichter, and Neal Richardson), Review of Economics and Statistics 92:3. August 2010. Teaching 17.806 Quantitative Research Methods IV: Advanced Topics News Looking under the surface of politics in Latin America September 24, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Danny Hidalgos research involves looking under the surface of elections and political campaigns, and probing some of their questionable elements. It turns out theres a lot to see down there. Quantitative Research Poster Session 2019 May 21, 2019 F. Daniel Hidalgo appointed Green Career Development Professor June 9, 2016 MIT SHASS F. Daniel Hidalgo: Its Electric October 12, 2012 Elizabeth Dougherty MIT News Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography F. Daniel Hidalgo is the Cecil and Ida Green Associate Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He received his doctorate in Political Science at the University of California at Berkeley and received a BA at Princeton University. Hidalgo is a past recipient of grants from the National Science Foundation, the Fulbright program, and the Experiments in Governance and Politics Network. His research focuses on the political economy of elections, campaigns, and representation in developing democracies, especially in Latin America, as well as quantitative methods in the social sciences. His work has appeared in journals such as the Journal of Politics, Review of Economic and Statistics, World Development, Political Analysis, and the American Journal of Political Science. Research Hidalgo's research focuses on political representation and electoral behavior in poor and middle-income democracies, as well as applied quantitative methods in the social sciences. His current substantive research interests include the political consequences of fraud-reducing electoral reforms, the politics of natural disasters, and the role of money in politics. Hidalgo's methodological interests focus on the statistics of causal inference and the application of machine learning techniques to new forms of political data, such as images and text. Recent Publications "Controlling the Airwaves: Incumbency Advantage and Community Radio in Brazil" (with Taylor Boas), American Journal of Political Science. Forthcoming. "Economic Determinants of Land Invasions" (with Suresh Naidu, Simeon Nichter, and Neal Richardson), Review of Economics and Statistics 92:3. August 2010. Teaching 17.806 Quantitative Research Methods IV: Advanced Topics News Looking under the surface of politics in Latin America September 24, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Danny Hidalgos research involves looking under the surface of elections and political campaigns, and probing some of their questionable elements. It turns out theres a lot to see down there. Quantitative Research Poster Session 2019 May 21, 2019 F. Daniel Hidalgo appointed Green Career Development Professor June 9, 2016 MIT SHASS F. Daniel Hidalgo: Its Electric October 12, 2012 Elizabeth Dougherty MIT News Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
