Erik Lin-Greenberg | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Erik Lin-Greenberg Assistant Professor eriklg@mit.edu Website CV Emerging technology, crisis escalation, and security strategy. Biography Erik Lin-Greenberg is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at MIT. He received his PhD from Columbia University, and his M.S. and B.S. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Professor Lin-Greenberg's research examines how emerging military technology affects conflict dynamics and the regulation and use of force. His current book project leverages experimental methods, archival research, elite interviews, and surveys to study how remote warfighting technologies like drones and cyber warfare shape crisis escalation. In other ongoing projects, he explore how technology influences alliance relationships and public attitudes toward the use of force, and is interested in the role of food in international politics. Professor Lin-Greenberg's work has appeared in a variety of academic and policy outlets including Security Studies, Journal of Peace Research,International Peacekeeping, The Washington Post,Foreign Policy, and War on the Rocks. His research has been supported by the Eisenhower Institute, the Horowitz Foundation for Social Policy, the Smith Richardson Foundation, Tobin Project, and Columbia University. He previously worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Pennsylvanias Perry World House, and as a Carnegie Pre-doctoral Fellow at Stanford Universitys Center for International Security and Cooperation. News A new world of warcraft October 14, 2020 Leda Zimmerman MIT Political Science Political scientist Erik Lin-Greenberg explores how a burgeoning high-tech arsenal is shaping military conflict. Biography News Biography Erik Lin-Greenberg is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at MIT. He received his PhD from Columbia University, and his M.S. and B.S. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Professor Lin-Greenberg's research examines how emerging military technology affects conflict dynamics and the regulation and use of force. His current book project leverages experimental methods, archival research, elite interviews, and surveys to study how remote warfighting technologies like drones and cyber warfare shape crisis escalation. In other ongoing projects, he explore how technology influences alliance relationships and public attitudes toward the use of force, and is interested in the role of food in international politics. Professor Lin-Greenberg's work has appeared in a variety of academic and policy outlets including Security Studies, Journal of Peace Research,International Peacekeeping, The Washington Post,Foreign Policy, and War on the Rocks. His research has been supported by the Eisenhower Institute, the Horowitz Foundation for Social Policy, the Smith Richardson Foundation, Tobin Project, and Columbia University. He previously worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Pennsylvanias Perry World House, and as a Carnegie Pre-doctoral Fellow at Stanford Universitys Center for International Security and Cooperation. News A new world of warcraft October 14, 2020 Leda Zimmerman MIT Political Science Political scientist Erik Lin-Greenberg explores how a burgeoning high-tech arsenal is shaping military conflict. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
