Richard Nielsen | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Richard Nielsen Associate Professor of Political Science rnielsen@mit.edu E53-455 617-324-4823 Website CV Islam; terrorism; security studies; foreign aid; international law; international political economy; development; statistics. Biography Richard Nielsen is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. He completed his PhD (Government) and AM (Statistics) at Harvard University, and holds a BA from Brigham Young University. His book,Deadly Clerics(Cambridge University Press),uses statistical text analysis and fieldwork in Cairo mosques to understand the radicalization of jihadi clerics in the Arab world. Nielsen also writes on international law, the political economy of human rights, political violence, and political methodology. Some of this work is published or forthcoming inThe American Journal of Political Science, International Studies Quarterly, Political Analysis,andSociological Methods and Research. In 2017-2019 he is an Andrew Carnegie fellow, and his work has previouslybeen supported by the National Science Foundation, the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies, and the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Recent Publications "Rewarding Human Rights? Selective Aid Sanctions against Repressive States," International Studies Quarterly (30 April 2013) pp.1-13 "Foreign Aid Shocks as a Cause of Violent Armed Conflict, American Journal of Political Science, 55 (2): 219-232 (with Michael Findley, Zachary Davis, Tara Candland, and Daniel Nielson.) Teaching 17.S919 Introduction to International Relations News Baghdadis Martyrdom Bump October 29, 2019 Santiago Segarra, Ali Jadbabaie, Richard Nielsen Foreign Policy Killing the Islamic State leader will not kill his ideas. Research on Religion Podcast: Richard Nielsen on Deadly Clerics May 13, 2018 Research on Religion http://www.researchonreligion.org/religion-politics/richard-nielsen-on-deadly-clericsPolitical rebellion and violence in the Middle East has recently been associated with religious belief and rhetoric, often spurred on by the writings and recordings of Muslim clerics. What motivates imams to advocate such tactics? Prof. Richard Nielsen, an associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, answers this question with reference to previous theories of revolution and an examination of the career paths of imams who advocate violent jihad. Richard Nielsen on Deadly Clerics May 8, 2018 The Baylor Institute for Studies on Religion Political rebellion and violence in the Middle East has recently been associated with religious belief and rhetoric, often spurred on by the writings and recordings of Muslim clerics. What motivates imams to advocate such tactics? Why some Muslim clerics become jihadists November 9, 2017 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office What turns people into radical jihadist clerics? A new book by an MIT political scientist offers a new answer: thwarted career ambitions. Women will soon be issuing fatwas in Saudi Arabia. This isnt as groundbreaking as youd think. October 10, 2017 Richard A. Nielsen The Washington Post Within days of the reversal of Saudi Arabias infamous driving ban for women, the Saudi government announced that women will be authorized as muftis to give state-sanctioned Islamic legal rulings. Yet those hoping that this move extends womens rights in the kingdom will probably be disappointed. Nielsen, Stewart, & Acemoglu, awarded Carnegie fellowships April 26, 2017 Peter Dizikes MIT News MIT economist Daron Acemoglu and political scientists Richard Nielsen and Charles Stewart III have been named to the 2017 class of Andrew Carnegie Fellows, a prestigious honor supporting research in the social sciences and humanities. The MIT trio is among 35 scholars and intellectuals receiving the fellowships, which are awarded by the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Each fellow receives up to $200,000 to support a research sabbatical. Richard Nielsen November 6, 2015 Panel 2: The Contributions of MIT Political Science to Understanding Global Conflict (Ideas and Conflict) Biography Publications Teaching News Biography Richard Nielsen is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. He completed his PhD (Government) and AM (Statistics) at Harvard University, and holds a BA from Brigham Young University. His book,Deadly Clerics(Cambridge University Press),uses statistical text analysis and fieldwork in Cairo mosques to understand the radicalization of jihadi clerics in the Arab world. Nielsen also writes on international law, the political economy of human rights, political violence, and political methodology. Some of this work is published or forthcoming inThe American Journal of Political Science, International Studies Quarterly, Political Analysis,andSociological Methods and Research. In 2017-2019 he is an Andrew Carnegie fellow, and his work has previouslybeen supported by the National Science Foundation, the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies, and the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. Recent Publications "Rewarding Human Rights? Selective Aid Sanctions against Repressive States," International Studies Quarterly (30 April 2013) pp.1-13 "Foreign Aid Shocks as a Cause of Violent Armed Conflict, American Journal of Political Science, 55 (2): 219-232 (with Michael Findley, Zachary Davis, Tara Candland, and Daniel Nielson.) Teaching 17.S919 Introduction to International Relations News Baghdadis Martyrdom Bump October 29, 2019 Santiago Segarra, Ali Jadbabaie, Richard Nielsen Foreign Policy Killing the Islamic State leader will not kill his ideas. Research on Religion Podcast: Richard Nielsen on Deadly Clerics May 13, 2018 Research on Religion http://www.researchonreligion.org/religion-politics/richard-nielsen-on-deadly-clericsPolitical rebellion and violence in the Middle East has recently been associated with religious belief and rhetoric, often spurred on by the writings and recordings of Muslim clerics. What motivates imams to advocate such tactics? Prof. Richard Nielsen, an associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, answers this question with reference to previous theories of revolution and an examination of the career paths of imams who advocate violent jihad. Richard Nielsen on Deadly Clerics May 8, 2018 The Baylor Institute for Studies on Religion Political rebellion and violence in the Middle East has recently been associated with religious belief and rhetoric, often spurred on by the writings and recordings of Muslim clerics. What motivates imams to advocate such tactics? Why some Muslim clerics become jihadists November 9, 2017 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office What turns people into radical jihadist clerics? A new book by an MIT political scientist offers a new answer: thwarted career ambitions. Women will soon be issuing fatwas in Saudi Arabia. This isnt as groundbreaking as youd think. October 10, 2017 Richard A. Nielsen The Washington Post Within days of the reversal of Saudi Arabias infamous driving ban for women, the Saudi government announced that women will be authorized as muftis to give state-sanctioned Islamic legal rulings. Yet those hoping that this move extends womens rights in the kingdom will probably be disappointed. Nielsen, Stewart, & Acemoglu, awarded Carnegie fellowships April 26, 2017 Peter Dizikes MIT News MIT economist Daron Acemoglu and political scientists Richard Nielsen and Charles Stewart III have been named to the 2017 class of Andrew Carnegie Fellows, a prestigious honor supporting research in the social sciences and humanities. The MIT trio is among 35 scholars and intellectuals receiving the fellowships, which are awarded by the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Each fellow receives up to $200,000 to support a research sabbatical. Richard Nielsen November 6, 2015 Panel 2: The Contributions of MIT Political Science to Understanding Global Conflict (Ideas and Conflict) Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
