Stephen Van Evera | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Stephen Van Evera Ford International Professor of Political Science vanevera@mit.edu E40-475 617-253-0530 CV International relations; war; foreign policy; security policy; US intervention. Biography Stephen Van Evera is Ford International Professor in the MIT Political Science Department. Prof. Van Evera works in several areas of international relations: the causes and prevention of war, U.S. foreign policy, U.S. security policy, U.S. intervention in the Third World, international relations of the Middle East, and international relations theory. He has published books on the causes of war and on social science methodology, and articles on American foreign policy, American defense policy, nationalism and the causes of war, the origins of World War I, and U.S. strategy in the War on Terror. He currently serves as chair of the Tobin Project committee on national security. Research Stephen Van Evera's research interests include the causes and prevention of war, with focus on the role of national misperception as a cause of war, and on organized religions as causes of war or peace; U.S. foreign policy; U.S. security policy; international relations theory; and social science methods, with focus on qualitative methods. He has published books on the causes of war and on social science methods, and articles on American foreign policy, American defense policy, the origins of World War I, nationalism and the causes of war, the origins of national identity, American intervention in the developing world, Europe's future international relations, the Israel-Arab conflict, and U.S. strategy in the war on al-Qaeda. Recent Publications "Using U.S. Leverage to Abate Conflicts That Harm U.S. Security," in Stephen Van Evera and Sidharth Shah, eds., The Prudent Use of Power in American National Security Strategy, The Tobin Project, 2010. "Public Diplomacy: Ideas for the War of Ideas," with Peter Krause, Middle East Policy, Vol. XVI, No. 3, Fall 2009, pp. 106-134. "A Farewell to Geopolitics," In Melvyn P. Leffler and Jeffrey W. Legro, eds., To Lead the World: American Strategy after the Bush Doctrine, (Oxford, 2008) pp. 11-35. "The War on Terror: Forgotten Lessons from WWII" Middle East Policy (Vol. XIV, No. 2, Summer 2007). "Iraq: Canary in a Coal Mine," MIT International Review, Spring 2007. Teaching 17.42 The Causes and Prevention of War 17.428 American Foreign Policy: Theory and Method 17.432 Causes and Prevention of War: Theory and Method 17.40 American Foreign Policy News Prof Van Evera talks about how bad things happen when the powers that be employ victim ideology. September 12, 2019 Jay Talking-WBZ AM 3 Questions: Stephen Van Evera revisits World War I November 8, 2018 Michelle English Center for International Studies One hundred years ago on Nov. 11, 1918, the Allied Powers and Germany signed an armistice bringing to an end World War I. That bloody conflict decimated Europe and destroyed three major empires (Austrian, Russian, and Ottoman). Its aftershocks still echo in our own times. Stephen Van Evera November 6, 2015 Panel 4: Conducting research at MIT: What is uniue about being a Political Scientist here? (Security Studies) Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Stephen Van Evera is Ford International Professor in the MIT Political Science Department. Prof. Van Evera works in several areas of international relations: the causes and prevention of war, U.S. foreign policy, U.S. security policy, U.S. intervention in the Third World, international relations of the Middle East, and international relations theory. He has published books on the causes of war and on social science methodology, and articles on American foreign policy, American defense policy, nationalism and the causes of war, the origins of World War I, and U.S. strategy in the War on Terror. He currently serves as chair of the Tobin Project committee on national security. Research Stephen Van Evera's research interests include the causes and prevention of war, with focus on the role of national misperception as a cause of war, and on organized religions as causes of war or peace; U.S. foreign policy; U.S. security policy; international relations theory; and social science methods, with focus on qualitative methods. He has published books on the causes of war and on social science methods, and articles on American foreign policy, American defense policy, the origins of World War I, nationalism and the causes of war, the origins of national identity, American intervention in the developing world, Europe's future international relations, the Israel-Arab conflict, and U.S. strategy in the war on al-Qaeda. Recent Publications "Using U.S. Leverage to Abate Conflicts That Harm U.S. Security," in Stephen Van Evera and Sidharth Shah, eds., The Prudent Use of Power in American National Security Strategy, The Tobin Project, 2010. "Public Diplomacy: Ideas for the War of Ideas," with Peter Krause, Middle East Policy, Vol. XVI, No. 3, Fall 2009, pp. 106-134. "A Farewell to Geopolitics," In Melvyn P. Leffler and Jeffrey W. Legro, eds., To Lead the World: American Strategy after the Bush Doctrine, (Oxford, 2008) pp. 11-35. "The War on Terror: Forgotten Lessons from WWII" Middle East Policy (Vol. XIV, No. 2, Summer 2007). "Iraq: Canary in a Coal Mine," MIT International Review, Spring 2007. Teaching 17.42 The Causes and Prevention of War 17.428 American Foreign Policy: Theory and Method 17.432 Causes and Prevention of War: Theory and Method 17.40 American Foreign Policy News Prof Van Evera talks about how bad things happen when the powers that be employ victim ideology. September 12, 2019 Jay Talking-WBZ AM 3 Questions: Stephen Van Evera revisits World War I November 8, 2018 Michelle English Center for International Studies One hundred years ago on Nov. 11, 1918, the Allied Powers and Germany signed an armistice bringing to an end World War I. That bloody conflict decimated Europe and destroyed three major empires (Austrian, Russian, and Ottoman). Its aftershocks still echo in our own times. Stephen Van Evera November 6, 2015 Panel 4: Conducting research at MIT: What is uniue about being a Political Scientist here? (Security Studies) Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
