Melissa Nobles | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Melissa Nobles Kenan Sahin Dean of the School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences Professor of Political Science mnobles@mit.edu 4-250 617-253-6637 Website Comparative Politics; identity; transitional / retrospective justice; violence; Brazil; US South. Biography Melissa Nobles is the Kenan Sahin Dean of the School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, and Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Nobles research and teaching have focused on the comparative study of racial and ethnic politics, and issues of retrospective justice. Her current research centers on constructing a database of racial killings in the American South, 19301954. Working closely as a faculty collaborator and advisory boardmember of Northeastern Law School's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice law clinic, Nobles has conducted extensive archival research, unearthing understudied and more often, unknown deaths and contributing to legal investigations. She is the author of two books, Shades of Citizenship: Race and the Census in Modern Politics (Stanford University Press, 2000), The Politics of Official Apologies (Cambridge University Press, 2008), and co-editor with Jun-Hyeok Kwak of Inherited Responsibility and Historical Reconciliation in East Asia (Routledge Press, 2013). Her scholarship has also appeared in the Annual Review of Political Science, Daedalus, American Journal of Public Health, and several edited books. Nobles is a graduate of Brown University where she majored in History. She received her MA and PhD in Political Science from Yale University. Nobles has held fellowships at Boston University's Institute for Race and Social Division and Harvard University's Radcliffe Center for Advanced Study. She has served on the editorial boards of Polity, American Political Science Review, and Perspectives on Politics journals. Nobles has also been involved in faculty governance at MIT and beyond, serving as the Associate Chair of the MIT Faculty from 20072009 and Vice-President of the American PoliticalScience Association, 2013-14. Research Professor Nobles' teaching and research interests are in the comparative study of racial and ethnic politics, and issues of retrospective justice. Her first book, Shades of Citizenship: Race and the Census in Modern Politics (Stanford University Press, 2000), examines the political origins and consequences of racial categorization in demographic censuses in the United States and Brazil. Her second book, The Politics of Official Apologies, (Cambridge University Press, 2008), comparatively examines the political uses of official apologies in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. At present, Prof. Nobles is conducting research for a third book manuscript that will analyze the prospects for "transitional justice" in the American south. This book, and related projects, proposes to include the southern region of the United States in the comparative study of democratization and transitional justice. For a variety of reasons, which the book will examine, the south is not often included in comparative study. Recent Publications "Democratic dilemmas of census categorization in the post-civil rights era," in How Public Institutions Assess Identity Claims, ed. Avigail Eisenberg and Will Kymlicka. University of British Columbia Press, in press. "The Prosecution of Human Rights Violations," Annual Review of Political Science, (2010) 13:165-82. The Politics of Official Apologies .New York: Cambridge University Press, 2008). "Reparations Claims: Politics by Another Name," Political Power and Political Theory, (2007) 18:253-258. "The Myth of Latin American Multiracialism," Daedalus, (2005) 82-87. "Lessons from Brazil: The Ideational and Political Dimensions of Multiraciality," in The New Race Question: How the Census Counts Multiracial Individuals, ed. Joel Perlmann and Mary Waters, New York: Russell Sage Foundation press. (2002). "Racial Categorization and censuses," in Census and Identity: The Politics of Race, Ethnicity, and Language in National Censuses, ed. David I. Kertzer and Dominique Arel. Cambridge University Press, 2001. Teaching 17.50 Introduction to Comparative Politics 17.523 Ethnic Conflict in World Politics 17.504 Ethnic Politics I 17.516 Transitional Justice News Unearthing the stories of yesterdays George Floyds July 17, 2020 Melissa Nobles The Boston Globe When we call the victims descendants to share our findings, they tell us I never thought Id get this call. The scars remain, and luckily, because we have found documents, so does proof. 3 Questions: The social implications and responsibilities of computing May 24, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Since February, five working groups have been generating ideas about the form and content of the new MIT Stephen A. Schwarzman College of Computing. That includes the Working Group on Social Implications and Responsibilities of Computing, co-chaired by Melissa Nobles, the Kenan Sahin Dean of the MIT School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences and a professor of political science, and Julie Shah, associate professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT and head of the Interactive Robotics Group of the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. MIT News talked to Shah about the groups progress and goals to this point. This is a really creative way of getting around that and creating something new that is truly collaborative. Dean Nobles on the new College For Computing And Artificial Intelligence October 15, 2018 WGBH We are now beginning to change the narrative such that the families who have had that violence visited upon them now can talk about it and it be understood. Melissa Nobles April 9, 2018 Jim Axelrod CBS News Steven Rathgeb Smith, PhD '88 November 6, 2015 Symposium Opening Remarks Tom Wolf, Governor of Pennsylvania (PhD '81) & SHASS Dean Melissa Nobles November 5, 2015 Melissa Nobles: Taking full account of the past April 20, 2013 Leda Zimmerman Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Melissa Nobles is the Kenan Sahin Dean of the School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, and Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Nobles research and teaching have focused on the comparative study of racial and ethnic politics, and issues of retrospective justice. Her current research centers on constructing a database of racial killings in the American South, 19301954. Working closely as a faculty collaborator and advisory boardmember of Northeastern Law School's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice law clinic, Nobles has conducted extensive archival research, unearthing understudied and more often, unknown deaths and contributing to legal investigations. She is the author of two books, Shades of Citizenship: Race and the Census in Modern Politics (Stanford University Press, 2000), The Politics of Official Apologies (Cambridge University Press, 2008), and co-editor with Jun-Hyeok Kwak of Inherited Responsibility and Historical Reconciliation in East Asia (Routledge Press, 2013). Her scholarship has also appeared in the Annual Review of Political Science, Daedalus, American Journal of Public Health, and several edited books. Nobles is a graduate of Brown University where she majored in History. She received her MA and PhD in Political Science from Yale University. Nobles has held fellowships at Boston University's Institute for Race and Social Division and Harvard University's Radcliffe Center for Advanced Study. She has served on the editorial boards of Polity, American Political Science Review, and Perspectives on Politics journals. Nobles has also been involved in faculty governance at MIT and beyond, serving as the Associate Chair of the MIT Faculty from 20072009 and Vice-President of the American PoliticalScience Association, 2013-14. Research Professor Nobles' teaching and research interests are in the comparative study of racial and ethnic politics, and issues of retrospective justice. Her first book, Shades of Citizenship: Race and the Census in Modern Politics (Stanford University Press, 2000), examines the political origins and consequences of racial categorization in demographic censuses in the United States and Brazil. Her second book, The Politics of Official Apologies, (Cambridge University Press, 2008), comparatively examines the political uses of official apologies in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. At present, Prof. Nobles is conducting research for a third book manuscript that will analyze the prospects for "transitional justice" in the American south. This book, and related projects, proposes to include the southern region of the United States in the comparative study of democratization and transitional justice. For a variety of reasons, which the book will examine, the south is not often included in comparative study. Recent Publications "Democratic dilemmas of census categorization in the post-civil rights era," in How Public Institutions Assess Identity Claims, ed. Avigail Eisenberg and Will Kymlicka. University of British Columbia Press, in press. "The Prosecution of Human Rights Violations," Annual Review of Political Science, (2010) 13:165-82. The Politics of Official Apologies .New York: Cambridge University Press, 2008). "Reparations Claims: Politics by Another Name," Political Power and Political Theory, (2007) 18:253-258. "The Myth of Latin American Multiracialism," Daedalus, (2005) 82-87. "Lessons from Brazil: The Ideational and Political Dimensions of Multiraciality," in The New Race Question: How the Census Counts Multiracial Individuals, ed. Joel Perlmann and Mary Waters, New York: Russell Sage Foundation press. (2002). "Racial Categorization and censuses," in Census and Identity: The Politics of Race, Ethnicity, and Language in National Censuses, ed. David I. Kertzer and Dominique Arel. Cambridge University Press, 2001. Teaching 17.50 Introduction to Comparative Politics 17.523 Ethnic Conflict in World Politics 17.504 Ethnic Politics I 17.516 Transitional Justice News Unearthing the stories of yesterdays George Floyds July 17, 2020 Melissa Nobles The Boston Globe When we call the victims descendants to share our findings, they tell us I never thought Id get this call. The scars remain, and luckily, because we have found documents, so does proof. 3 Questions: The social implications and responsibilities of computing May 24, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News Since February, five working groups have been generating ideas about the form and content of the new MIT Stephen A. Schwarzman College of Computing. That includes the Working Group on Social Implications and Responsibilities of Computing, co-chaired by Melissa Nobles, the Kenan Sahin Dean of the MIT School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences and a professor of political science, and Julie Shah, associate professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics at MIT and head of the Interactive Robotics Group of the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. MIT News talked to Shah about the groups progress and goals to this point. This is a really creative way of getting around that and creating something new that is truly collaborative. Dean Nobles on the new College For Computing And Artificial Intelligence October 15, 2018 WGBH We are now beginning to change the narrative such that the families who have had that violence visited upon them now can talk about it and it be understood. Melissa Nobles April 9, 2018 Jim Axelrod CBS News Steven Rathgeb Smith, PhD '88 November 6, 2015 Symposium Opening Remarks Tom Wolf, Governor of Pennsylvania (PhD '81) & SHASS Dean Melissa Nobles November 5, 2015 Melissa Nobles: Taking full account of the past April 20, 2013 Leda Zimmerman Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
