M. Taylor Fravel | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD M. Taylor Fravel Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science Director of the MIT Security Studies Program fravel@mit.edu E40-471 617-324-0222 Personal website CV International relations; international security; military strategy; military doctrine; nuclear weapons; nuclear strategy; territorial disputes; maritime disputes; China; East Asia. Biography M. Taylor Fravel is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science and Director of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Taylor studies international relations, with a focus on international security, China, and East Asia. His books include, Strong Borders, Secure Nation: Cooperation and Conflict in Chinas Territorial Disputes, (Princeton University Press, 2008) and Active Defense: China's Military Strategy Since 1949 (Princeton University Press, 2019). His other publications have appeared in International Security, Foreign Affairs, Security Studies, International Studies Review, The China Quarterly, The Washington Quarterly, Journal of Strategic Studies, Armed Forces & Society, Current History, Asian Survey, Asian Security, China Leadership Monitor, and Contemporary Southeast Asia. Taylor is a graduate of Middlebury College and Stanford University, where he received his PhD. He also has graduate degrees from the London School of Economics and Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. In 2016, he was named an Andrew Carnegie Fellow by the Carnegie Corporation. Taylor is a member of the board of directors of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations and serves as the Principal Investigator for the Maritime Awareness Project. Recent Publications Shifts in Warfare and Party Unity: Explaining Changes in Chinas Military Strategy, International Security Vol 42, No. 3 (Winter 2017/2018) Threading the Needle: The South China Sea Disputes and U.S.-China Relations, in Robert Ross and ystein Tsunjo, eds., Strategic Adjustment and the Rise of China: Power and Politics in East Asia (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2017) Qualitative Investigations of Theoretical Models: The Value of Process Tracing, Journal of Theoretical Politics Vol. 29, No. 3 (2017) (with Peter Lorentzen and Jack Paine) Explaining Chinas Escalation in the Senkaku (Diaoyu) Islands Dispute, Global Summitry Vol. 2, No. 1 (June 2016) Assuring Assured Retaliation: Chinas Nuclear Strategy and U.S.-China Strategic Stability, International Security Vol. 40, No. 2 (Fall 2015) (with Fiona S. Cunningham) The PLA and National Security Decisionmaking: Insights from Chinas Territorial and Maritime Disputes, in Phillip Saunders and Andrew Scobell, eds., The PLAs Role in National Security Policy-Making (Palo Alto: Stanford University Press, 2015) Projecting Strategy: The Myth of Chinese Counter-Intervention, The Washington Quarterly Vol. 37, No. 4 (Winter 2015) (with Christopher P. Twomey) Things Fall Apart: Maritime Disputes and Chinas Regional Diplomacy, in Jacques deLisle and Avery Goldstein, eds., Chinas Challenges: The Road Ahead (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015) Territorial and Maritime Boundary Disputes in Asia, in Saadia Pekkanen, Rosemary Foot, and John Ravenhill, Oxford Handbook of the International Relations of Asia (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014) Teaching 17.950 Territorial Conflict 17.407/17.408 Chinese Foreign Policy: International Relations and Strategy (Syllabus) 17.433/17.434 International Relations of East Asia 17.418 Field Seminar in International Relations (Syllabus) 17.THT Thesis Research Design Seminar News M. Taylor Fravel speaks with the Cato Institute's Emma Ashford in a podcast about ongoing ChinaIndia tensions and what China wants from the world. October 6, 2020 The Cato Institute Does the global pandemic open new South China Sea opportunities for Beijing? Not really. May 7, 2020 M. Taylor Fravel The Washington Post China is just continuing its longtime strategy. Mike Pompeo criticized China for not respecting its neighbors territorial integrity. Whats the story? February 21, 2020 M. Taylor Fravel The Washington Post China is not an enemy July 3, 2019 M. Taylor Fravel , J. Stapleton Roy , Michael D. Swaine , Susan A. Thornton and Ezra Vogel Washington Post Dear President Trump and members of Congress: We are members of the scholarly, foreign policy, military and business communities, overwhelmingly from the United States, including many who have focused on Asia throughout our professional careers. We are deeply concerned about the growing deterioration in U.S. relations with China... M. Taylor Fravel named director of the MIT Security Studies Program July 1, 2019 Center for International Studies Barry Posen announces the leadership transition, welcomes the infusion of new energy. Podcast: M. Taylor Fravel discusses his book in the Jaw-Jaw podcast with Brad Carson June 11, 2019 Brad Carson War on the Rocks How does China think about the nature of war? How has Chinas conception of war changed over time? These and other questions are discussed in the latest episode of Jaw-Jaw, where Professor Taylor Fravel discusses his recent book Active Defense: Chinas Military Strategy Since 1949. The (evolving) art of war May 8, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News In 1969, the Soviet Union moved troops and military equipment to its border with China, escalating tensions between the communist Cold War powers. In response, China created a new military strategy of active defense to repel an invading force near the border. There was just one catch: China did not actually implement its new strategy until 1980. Which raises a question: How could China have taken a full decade before shifting its military posture in the face of an apparent threat to its existence? Biography Publications Teaching News Biography M. Taylor Fravel is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science and Director of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Taylor studies international relations, with a focus on international security, China, and East Asia. His books include, Strong Borders, Secure Nation: Cooperation and Conflict in Chinas Territorial Disputes, (Princeton University Press, 2008) and Active Defense: China's Military Strategy Since 1949 (Princeton University Press, 2019). His other publications have appeared in International Security, Foreign Affairs, Security Studies, International Studies Review, The China Quarterly, The Washington Quarterly, Journal of Strategic Studies, Armed Forces & Society, Current History, Asian Survey, Asian Security, China Leadership Monitor, and Contemporary Southeast Asia. Taylor is a graduate of Middlebury College and Stanford University, where he received his PhD. He also has graduate degrees from the London School of Economics and Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. In 2016, he was named an Andrew Carnegie Fellow by the Carnegie Corporation. Taylor is a member of the board of directors of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations and serves as the Principal Investigator for the Maritime Awareness Project. Recent Publications Shifts in Warfare and Party Unity: Explaining Changes in Chinas Military Strategy, International Security Vol 42, No. 3 (Winter 2017/2018) Threading the Needle: The South China Sea Disputes and U.S.-China Relations, in Robert Ross and ystein Tsunjo, eds., Strategic Adjustment and the Rise of China: Power and Politics in East Asia (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2017) Qualitative Investigations of Theoretical Models: The Value of Process Tracing, Journal of Theoretical Politics Vol. 29, No. 3 (2017) (with Peter Lorentzen and Jack Paine) Explaining Chinas Escalation in the Senkaku (Diaoyu) Islands Dispute, Global Summitry Vol. 2, No. 1 (June 2016) Assuring Assured Retaliation: Chinas Nuclear Strategy and U.S.-China Strategic Stability, International Security Vol. 40, No. 2 (Fall 2015) (with Fiona S. Cunningham) The PLA and National Security Decisionmaking: Insights from Chinas Territorial and Maritime Disputes, in Phillip Saunders and Andrew Scobell, eds., The PLAs Role in National Security Policy-Making (Palo Alto: Stanford University Press, 2015) Projecting Strategy: The Myth of Chinese Counter-Intervention, The Washington Quarterly Vol. 37, No. 4 (Winter 2015) (with Christopher P. Twomey) Things Fall Apart: Maritime Disputes and Chinas Regional Diplomacy, in Jacques deLisle and Avery Goldstein, eds., Chinas Challenges: The Road Ahead (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2015) Territorial and Maritime Boundary Disputes in Asia, in Saadia Pekkanen, Rosemary Foot, and John Ravenhill, Oxford Handbook of the International Relations of Asia (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014) Teaching 17.950 Territorial Conflict 17.407/17.408 Chinese Foreign Policy: International Relations and Strategy (Syllabus) 17.433/17.434 International Relations of East Asia 17.418 Field Seminar in International Relations (Syllabus) 17.THT Thesis Research Design Seminar News M. Taylor Fravel speaks with the Cato Institute's Emma Ashford in a podcast about ongoing ChinaIndia tensions and what China wants from the world. October 6, 2020 The Cato Institute Does the global pandemic open new South China Sea opportunities for Beijing? Not really. May 7, 2020 M. Taylor Fravel The Washington Post China is just continuing its longtime strategy. Mike Pompeo criticized China for not respecting its neighbors territorial integrity. Whats the story? February 21, 2020 M. Taylor Fravel The Washington Post China is not an enemy July 3, 2019 M. Taylor Fravel , J. Stapleton Roy , Michael D. Swaine , Susan A. Thornton and Ezra Vogel Washington Post Dear President Trump and members of Congress: We are members of the scholarly, foreign policy, military and business communities, overwhelmingly from the United States, including many who have focused on Asia throughout our professional careers. We are deeply concerned about the growing deterioration in U.S. relations with China... M. Taylor Fravel named director of the MIT Security Studies Program July 1, 2019 Center for International Studies Barry Posen announces the leadership transition, welcomes the infusion of new energy. Podcast: M. Taylor Fravel discusses his book in the Jaw-Jaw podcast with Brad Carson June 11, 2019 Brad Carson War on the Rocks How does China think about the nature of war? How has Chinas conception of war changed over time? These and other questions are discussed in the latest episode of Jaw-Jaw, where Professor Taylor Fravel discusses his recent book Active Defense: Chinas Military Strategy Since 1949. The (evolving) art of war May 8, 2019 Peter Dizikes MIT News In 1969, the Soviet Union moved troops and military equipment to its border with China, escalating tensions between the communist Cold War powers. In response, China created a new military strategy of active defense to repel an invading force near the border. There was just one catch: China did not actually implement its new strategy until 1980. Which raises a question: How could China have taken a full decade before shifting its military posture in the face of an apparent threat to its existence? Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
