Barry R. Posen | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Barry R. Posen Ford International Professor of Political Science at MIT posen@mit.edu E40-463 617-253-8088 Website CV Security studies; international relations; international security; military strategy; restraint; nuclear studies; military doctrine. Biography Barry R. Posen is Ford International Professor of Political Science at MIT and serves on the Executive Committee of Seminar XXI. He has written three books, Restraint-A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy, Inadvertent Escalation: Conventional War and Nuclear Risks and The Sources of Military Doctrine. The latter won two awards: The American Political Science Association's Woodrow Wilson Foundation Book Award, and Ohio State University's Edward J. Furniss Jr. Book Award. He is also the author of numerous articles, including "The Case for Restraint," The American Interest, (November/December 2007) and "Command of the Commons: The Military Foundation of U.S. Hegemony," International Security, (Summer, 2003.) He has been a Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow; Rockefeller Foundation International Affairs Fellow; Guest Scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; Woodrow Wilson Center Fellow; Smithsonian Institution; Transatlantic Fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and most recently Visiting Fellow at the John Sloan Dickey Center at Dartmouth College. Research Professor Posen studies U.S. grand strategy and national security policy. His current research examines whether the diffusion of power away from the United States can best be understood as the emergence of a multipolar structure of power, and if so, how the United States should navigate this change. Posens project aims to research the rules of the road of 21st Century multipolarity. To do so, he looks at how states and statesmen navigated multipolar systems in the past. But there are limits to drawing lessons from history, due to the truly global nature of a future multipolar system, if it emerges. Further, nuclear weapons have changed security competition among states, and the past half-century has seen major changes in conventional warfare as well. Posen aims to imagine the kind of multipolar security competition that might prevail, given these changes. Posen published an article exploring the impact of multipolarity on the management of civil wars in Daedalus (Fall 2017). Posen continues to study current U.S. national security policy. He published his interpretation of the grand strategy of the Trump Administration, "Illiberal Hegemony," in Foreign Affairs (March/April 2018). And he contributed to the debate on how to address the North Korean nuclear weapons program in the New York Times."The Price of War With North Korea" (December 2017). He remains actively engaged in the debate on U.S. Grand Strategy, promoting Restraint whenever there is an opportunity. Finally, he follows European security issues, and lives in hope that one day Europeans will assume responsibility for their own security. Recent Publications Restraint: A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy, Cornell University Press, 2014. "Pull Back: The Case for a Less Activist Foreign Policy," Foreign Affairs, January/February 2013. "Overkill," (part of "The Containment Conundrum: How Dangerous is a Nuclear Iran?") Foreign Affairs, July/August 2010, pp. 160-163. "Emerging Multipolarity: Why Should We Care?" Current History (November 2009) pp. 347-352. Breakthroughs: Armored Offensives in Western Europe, 1944. With Eric Heginbotham, Nick Beldecos, Kevin Oliveau, Jonathan Ladinsky, Brian Nichiporuk, Eugene Gholz, and and Ken Pollack. July 2009. "Restraining Order," The American Interest, Vol. 3, No. 3, January-February 2008, pp. 94-97. Teaching 17.462 Innovation in Military Organizations 17.468 Foundations of Security Studies 17.478 Great Power Military Intervention 17.482-3 U.S. Military Power 17.484 Comparative Grand Strategy and Military Doctrine 17.951 Intelligence: Practices, Problems and Prospects News Do Pandemics Promote Peace? April 23, 2020 Barry R. Posen Foreign Affairs Why Sickness Slows the March to War Courting War March 3, 2020 Barry Posen Boston Review Despite claims to the contrary, the Trump administration wants regime change in Iran and is risking a full-scale war in order to get it. Barry Posen awarded the Notre Dame International Security Centers Lifetime Achievement Award April 11, 2019 University of Notre Dame Foreign Affairs has named Barry Posen's article, "The Rise of Illiberal Hegemony," one of the Best of 2018. December 21, 2018 FOREIGN AFFAIRS I dont think that somebodys going to step up and say, Weve finished the job we came to do. Its time to leave. Barry Posen September 26, 2018 Kyle Rempfer and Todd South Military Times 3Q: Barry Posen on the NATO Summit and state of the alliance July 20, 2018 Michelle English MIT News/Center for International Studies Barry Posen, a leading national security expert and Cold War historian, offers in-depthscholarship on the historic meetings. Posen, a Ford International Professor of Political Science and director of the MIT Security Studies Program, discusses the role of NATO today, and whether the alliance is stronger than ever, as President Trump stated in a post-summit press conference. The Rise of Illiberal Hegemony March 1, 2018 Barry R. Posen Foreign Affairs Grand strategy is a slippery concept, and for those attempting to divine the Trump administrations, its National Security Strategya word salad of a documentyields little insight. The better way to understand Trumps approach to the world is to look at a years worth of actual policies. Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography Barry R. Posen is Ford International Professor of Political Science at MIT and serves on the Executive Committee of Seminar XXI. He has written three books, Restraint-A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy, Inadvertent Escalation: Conventional War and Nuclear Risks and The Sources of Military Doctrine. The latter won two awards: The American Political Science Association's Woodrow Wilson Foundation Book Award, and Ohio State University's Edward J. Furniss Jr. Book Award. He is also the author of numerous articles, including "The Case for Restraint," The American Interest, (November/December 2007) and "Command of the Commons: The Military Foundation of U.S. Hegemony," International Security, (Summer, 2003.) He has been a Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow; Rockefeller Foundation International Affairs Fellow; Guest Scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; Woodrow Wilson Center Fellow; Smithsonian Institution; Transatlantic Fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and most recently Visiting Fellow at the John Sloan Dickey Center at Dartmouth College. Research Professor Posen studies U.S. grand strategy and national security policy. His current research examines whether the diffusion of power away from the United States can best be understood as the emergence of a multipolar structure of power, and if so, how the United States should navigate this change. Posens project aims to research the rules of the road of 21st Century multipolarity. To do so, he looks at how states and statesmen navigated multipolar systems in the past. But there are limits to drawing lessons from history, due to the truly global nature of a future multipolar system, if it emerges. Further, nuclear weapons have changed security competition among states, and the past half-century has seen major changes in conventional warfare as well. Posen aims to imagine the kind of multipolar security competition that might prevail, given these changes. Posen published an article exploring the impact of multipolarity on the management of civil wars in Daedalus (Fall 2017). Posen continues to study current U.S. national security policy. He published his interpretation of the grand strategy of the Trump Administration, "Illiberal Hegemony," in Foreign Affairs (March/April 2018). And he contributed to the debate on how to address the North Korean nuclear weapons program in the New York Times."The Price of War With North Korea" (December 2017). He remains actively engaged in the debate on U.S. Grand Strategy, promoting Restraint whenever there is an opportunity. Finally, he follows European security issues, and lives in hope that one day Europeans will assume responsibility for their own security. Recent Publications Restraint: A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy, Cornell University Press, 2014. "Pull Back: The Case for a Less Activist Foreign Policy," Foreign Affairs, January/February 2013. "Overkill," (part of "The Containment Conundrum: How Dangerous is a Nuclear Iran?") Foreign Affairs, July/August 2010, pp. 160-163. "Emerging Multipolarity: Why Should We Care?" Current History (November 2009) pp. 347-352. Breakthroughs: Armored Offensives in Western Europe, 1944. With Eric Heginbotham, Nick Beldecos, Kevin Oliveau, Jonathan Ladinsky, Brian Nichiporuk, Eugene Gholz, and and Ken Pollack. July 2009. "Restraining Order," The American Interest, Vol. 3, No. 3, January-February 2008, pp. 94-97. Teaching 17.462 Innovation in Military Organizations 17.468 Foundations of Security Studies 17.478 Great Power Military Intervention 17.482-3 U.S. Military Power 17.484 Comparative Grand Strategy and Military Doctrine 17.951 Intelligence: Practices, Problems and Prospects News Do Pandemics Promote Peace? April 23, 2020 Barry R. Posen Foreign Affairs Why Sickness Slows the March to War Courting War March 3, 2020 Barry Posen Boston Review Despite claims to the contrary, the Trump administration wants regime change in Iran and is risking a full-scale war in order to get it. Barry Posen awarded the Notre Dame International Security Centers Lifetime Achievement Award April 11, 2019 University of Notre Dame Foreign Affairs has named Barry Posen's article, "The Rise of Illiberal Hegemony," one of the Best of 2018. December 21, 2018 FOREIGN AFFAIRS I dont think that somebodys going to step up and say, Weve finished the job we came to do. Its time to leave. Barry Posen September 26, 2018 Kyle Rempfer and Todd South Military Times 3Q: Barry Posen on the NATO Summit and state of the alliance July 20, 2018 Michelle English MIT News/Center for International Studies Barry Posen, a leading national security expert and Cold War historian, offers in-depthscholarship on the historic meetings. Posen, a Ford International Professor of Political Science and director of the MIT Security Studies Program, discusses the role of NATO today, and whether the alliance is stronger than ever, as President Trump stated in a post-summit press conference. The Rise of Illiberal Hegemony March 1, 2018 Barry R. Posen Foreign Affairs Grand strategy is a slippery concept, and for those attempting to divine the Trump administrations, its National Security Strategya word salad of a documentyields little insight. The better way to understand Trumps approach to the world is to look at a years worth of actual policies. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
