David A. Singer | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD David A. Singer Department Head Raphael Dorman-Helen Starbuck Professor of Political Science dasinger@mit.edu E53-473 617-258-9372 Website CV International political economy; financial crises; migration; exchange rate politics; central banking; regulation Biography David A. Singer is the Department Head and Raphael Dorman-Helen Starbuck Professor of Political Science at MIT. He is also Secretary of the Faculty. Professor Singer's research and teaching focus on international political economy with an emphasis on international financial relations, migration, international institutions and governance, and monetary and currency policies. He is co-author (with Mark Copelovitch) of Banks on the Brink: Global Capital, Securities Markets, and the Political Roots of Financial Crises (Cambridge University Press, 2020) and author of Regulating Capital: Setting Standards for the International Financial System (Cornell University Press, 2007, 2010) as well as articles in American Journal of Political Science, American Political Science Review, International Organization, Journal of Politics, International Studies Quarterly, and other journals. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of the International Political Economy Society, and was previously Associate Editor of International Studies Quarterly. Singer is a graduate of the University of Michigan and Harvard University, where he received his Ph.D. in 2004. Before joining the MIT faculty, he was Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame (2004-2006), and also worked in corporate finance and technology venture development. He was a Visiting Scholar at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008-9, a Visiting Professor at Harvard University's Weatherhead Center for International Affairs in 2010-11, and a Visiting Professor at Singapore University of Technology and Design in 2015. Since 2007 he has been Associate Head of MacGregor House, an undergraduate residence hall. Professor Singer was the inaugural chair of the MIT Committee on Sexual Misconduct Prevention and Response. He was the recipient in 2017 of the MIT Change Maker Award for "Shifting the culture that perpetuates sexual violence." Research Professor Singer maintains active research agendas in the areas of global financial instability, the political economy of central banking, and the politics of migration and remittances. He has also studied the politics of stock markets, the influence of the IMF on financial liberalization, and the evolution of the field of international political economy in the wake of the global financial crisis. Recent Publications For a complete list of Professor Singer's publications, please visit his website, and visit the 'Research and CV' tab. Teaching 17.464 IPE of Advanced Industrial Societies 17.962 Second-year Paper Seminar 17.115 International Political Economy (undergraduate) News Threats to Healthy Elections September 16, 2020 Experts discuss a variety of threats to a healthy elections process in these unprecedented times and some actions that can be deployed to address and combat these challenges. MIT Political Science Fall'20 Newsletter May 28, 2020 MIT Political Science Why do banking crises occur? March 10, 2020 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office In a new book, political scientist David Singer finds two key factors connected to financial-sector collapses around the globe. David A. Singer named Head of MIT Political Science July 8, 2019 Janine Sazinsky MIT Political Science Melissa Nobles, the Kenan Sahin Dean of MIT's School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, has announced that David Singer is the new Head of the Department Political Science, effective July 1. Prof. David Singer cited for work on The Institutes new sexual harassment policy February 25, 2018 The Boston Globe Singer honored for work to prevent sexual misconduct April 26, 2017 Kimberly Haberlin MIT News MIT Violence Prevention and Response and Title IX Office recognize students, faculty, and staff with 2017 Change Makers Awards. 3 Questions: David Singer on China and the renminbi December 4, 2015 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office MIT political scientist looks beyond the headlines about Chinas new currency status. Biography Research Publications Teaching News Biography David A. Singer is the Department Head and Raphael Dorman-Helen Starbuck Professor of Political Science at MIT. He is also Secretary of the Faculty. Professor Singer's research and teaching focus on international political economy with an emphasis on international financial relations, migration, international institutions and governance, and monetary and currency policies. He is co-author (with Mark Copelovitch) of Banks on the Brink: Global Capital, Securities Markets, and the Political Roots of Financial Crises (Cambridge University Press, 2020) and author of Regulating Capital: Setting Standards for the International Financial System (Cornell University Press, 2007, 2010) as well as articles in American Journal of Political Science, American Political Science Review, International Organization, Journal of Politics, International Studies Quarterly, and other journals. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of the International Political Economy Society, and was previously Associate Editor of International Studies Quarterly. Singer is a graduate of the University of Michigan and Harvard University, where he received his Ph.D. in 2004. Before joining the MIT faculty, he was Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame (2004-2006), and also worked in corporate finance and technology venture development. He was a Visiting Scholar at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008-9, a Visiting Professor at Harvard University's Weatherhead Center for International Affairs in 2010-11, and a Visiting Professor at Singapore University of Technology and Design in 2015. Since 2007 he has been Associate Head of MacGregor House, an undergraduate residence hall. Professor Singer was the inaugural chair of the MIT Committee on Sexual Misconduct Prevention and Response. He was the recipient in 2017 of the MIT Change Maker Award for "Shifting the culture that perpetuates sexual violence." Research Professor Singer maintains active research agendas in the areas of global financial instability, the political economy of central banking, and the politics of migration and remittances. He has also studied the politics of stock markets, the influence of the IMF on financial liberalization, and the evolution of the field of international political economy in the wake of the global financial crisis. Recent Publications For a complete list of Professor Singer's publications, please visit his website, and visit the 'Research and CV' tab. Teaching 17.464 IPE of Advanced Industrial Societies 17.962 Second-year Paper Seminar 17.115 International Political Economy (undergraduate) News Threats to Healthy Elections September 16, 2020 Experts discuss a variety of threats to a healthy elections process in these unprecedented times and some actions that can be deployed to address and combat these challenges. MIT Political Science Fall'20 Newsletter May 28, 2020 MIT Political Science Why do banking crises occur? March 10, 2020 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office In a new book, political scientist David Singer finds two key factors connected to financial-sector collapses around the globe. David A. Singer named Head of MIT Political Science July 8, 2019 Janine Sazinsky MIT Political Science Melissa Nobles, the Kenan Sahin Dean of MIT's School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, has announced that David Singer is the new Head of the Department Political Science, effective July 1. Prof. David Singer cited for work on The Institutes new sexual harassment policy February 25, 2018 The Boston Globe Singer honored for work to prevent sexual misconduct April 26, 2017 Kimberly Haberlin MIT News MIT Violence Prevention and Response and Title IX Office recognize students, faculty, and staff with 2017 Change Makers Awards. 3 Questions: David Singer on China and the renminbi December 4, 2015 Peter Dizikes MIT News Office MIT political scientist looks beyond the headlines about Chinas new currency status. Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
