Ariel White | People | MIT Political Science Skip to main content Menu MIT logo Search Primary Navigation Undergraduate Subjects Archive Major in Political Science Senior Thesis Double Major Minor in Political Science Minor in Public Policy Minor in Applied International Studies Concentration Five-year SB/SM - MISTI MIT Washington Program UROP Internships Pressman Award Scholarships + Fellowships - FAQ Admissions Academic Integrity OpenCourseWare Contacts Graduate PhD Program Masters Program Fields Subjects Archive Thesis Guidelines Opportunities Luksic Fellowship Job Placement Locations - FAQ Forms Admissions Scholarships + Fellowships Academic Integrity Grad Student Handbook OpenCourseWare Contacts Research Current Projects Past Projects Working Papers People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD News+Media Headlines 2019 2018 2017 Archive Op-Ed Multimedia Quoted Awards Events Upcoming Events Event Archive Event Series About Political Science at MIT Affiliated Programs On Diversity Give to MIT Political Science Contact Us - Conference Rooms People Secondary nav - People Faculty Affiliates Staff Visitors Graduate Students Hire an MIT PhD Ariel White Silverman: (1968) Family Career Development Associate Professor of Political Science arwhi@mit.edu E53-461 617-715-4646 Website American politics; political behavior; voting; race/ethnicity. Biography Ariel White is the Silverman: (1968) Family Career Development Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. She studies voting and voting rights, race, the criminal legal system, and bureaucratic behavior. Her work uses large datasets (and sometimes experiments) to measure individual-level experiences, and to shed light on people's everyday interactions with government. She received her PhD in Government from Harvard University, where she was a doctoral fellow in the Multidisciplinary Program in Inequality and Social Policy (at Harvard's Kennedy School) and a Radcliffe fellow. Her research has appeared in the American Political Science Review, Science, Political Behavior, and other journals. Research Ariel White's research page Recent Publications White, Ariel. 2016. When Threat Mobilizes: Immigration Enforcement and Latino Voter Turnout. Political Behavior 38 (2):355-382. Publisher's Version pdf version (Replication Data) Gay, Claudine, Jennifer Hochschild, and Ariel White. 2016. Americans Belief in Linked Fate: Does the Measure Capture the Concept?. Journal of Race, Ethnicity, and Politics1 (1) : 117-144. Publisher's Version (Replication Data) Faller, Julie, Noah Nathan, and Ariel White. 2015. What Do I Need to Vote? Bureaucratic Discretion and Discrimination by Local Election Officials Media:Washington Post's Monkey Cage, NPR's The Takeaway, andThe Atlantic's Citylab Also: cited in expert testimony Replication Data News 3 questions: Ariel White on voter rights and the US criminal justice system October 13, 2020 School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences MIT political scientist researches voting, race, the legal system, and bureaucratic behavior. We dont really know what the full picture is of jail-based disenfranchisement, partly because of this very decentralization. Ariel White October 1, 2020 Madeleine Carlisle and Lissandra Villa Time Jails disenfranchise thousands who have a constitutional right to vote November 22, 2019 Thea Sebastian and Ariel White USA Today The majority of people in state and local facilities haven't been convicted of a crime. And in many states, they may still be kept from ballot box. 3 Questions: Ariel White on the impact of incarceration on voting October 14, 2019 MIT SHASS Even very short jail sentences drive people away from voting March 28, 2019 Ariel White Washington Post New research offers fresh evidence of the criminal justice systems effects on politics. Ariel White awarded a 2018-2019 Russell Sage Fellowship Award May 24, 2018 Ariel White receives SHASS research fund award January 3, 2018 MIT Political Science MIT SHASS Biography Research Publications News Biography Ariel White is the Silverman: (1968) Family Career Development Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. She studies voting and voting rights, race, the criminal legal system, and bureaucratic behavior. Her work uses large datasets (and sometimes experiments) to measure individual-level experiences, and to shed light on people's everyday interactions with government. She received her PhD in Government from Harvard University, where she was a doctoral fellow in the Multidisciplinary Program in Inequality and Social Policy (at Harvard's Kennedy School) and a Radcliffe fellow. Her research has appeared in the American Political Science Review, Science, Political Behavior, and other journals. Research Ariel White's research page Recent Publications White, Ariel. 2016. When Threat Mobilizes: Immigration Enforcement and Latino Voter Turnout. Political Behavior 38 (2):355-382. Publisher's Version pdf version (Replication Data) Gay, Claudine, Jennifer Hochschild, and Ariel White. 2016. Americans Belief in Linked Fate: Does the Measure Capture the Concept?. Journal of Race, Ethnicity, and Politics1 (1) : 117-144. Publisher's Version (Replication Data) Faller, Julie, Noah Nathan, and Ariel White. 2015. What Do I Need to Vote? Bureaucratic Discretion and Discrimination by Local Election Officials Media:Washington Post's Monkey Cage, NPR's The Takeaway, andThe Atlantic's Citylab Also: cited in expert testimony Replication Data News 3 questions: Ariel White on voter rights and the US criminal justice system October 13, 2020 School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences MIT political scientist researches voting, race, the legal system, and bureaucratic behavior. We dont really know what the full picture is of jail-based disenfranchisement, partly because of this very decentralization. Ariel White October 1, 2020 Madeleine Carlisle and Lissandra Villa Time Jails disenfranchise thousands who have a constitutional right to vote November 22, 2019 Thea Sebastian and Ariel White USA Today The majority of people in state and local facilities haven't been convicted of a crime. And in many states, they may still be kept from ballot box. 3 Questions: Ariel White on the impact of incarceration on voting October 14, 2019 MIT SHASS Even very short jail sentences drive people away from voting March 28, 2019 Ariel White Washington Post New research offers fresh evidence of the criminal justice systems effects on politics. Ariel White awarded a 2018-2019 Russell Sage Fellowship Award May 24, 2018 Ariel White receives SHASS research fund award January 3, 2018 MIT Political Science MIT SHASS Footer Navigation Contact Give Affiliated Programs Hire an MIT PhD On Diversity MIT Political Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 30 Wadsworth Street E53-470 Cambridge, MA 02142 politicalscience@mit.edu +1 617 253 5262 Accessibility Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Conference Rooms
