Faculty Spotlight - Computing & Software Systems (CSS) - UW Bothell Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics Future Students Admissions Application Dates Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Research Support Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) Programs First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Centers and Institutes Center on Reinventing Public Education (CRPE) Goodlad Institute for Education Renewal Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Community Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni Profiles Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Husky Jobs Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Bjong Wolf Yeigh Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2017-18 Annual Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Neighbors Parents and Family Home Computing & Software Systems (CSS) News & Events Faculty Spotlight Computing & Software Systems (CSS) About Us Learning Objectives Admission Current UWB Students Transfer Students Application Information Community College Equivalency Application Deadlines for Undergraduate Majors Personal Statement English Language Proficiency FAQs Undergraduate Minors Advising Policies & Procedures Time Schedule Registration & Waitlists Graduation Information Looking for a Career? Course Information Forms & Contracts Capstone Student Guide Specific Guidelines Abstract Information Competencies Contract Deadlines Colloquium Schedule For Sponsors FAQs Graduate News & Events News Events Recent Publications Student Experience Faculty Spotlight Stay Connected Faculty Staff CSS Labs Lab Policies and Access Advanced Projects Lab CyberSecurity Lab Embedded Systems Lab Linux Lab Windows Lab Student Organizations Upsilon Pi Epsilon CSS Wiki School of STEM home Faculty Spotlight SPRING/SUMMER 2019 Brent Lagasse receives NSF funded International Research Experiences for Students (IRES) grant Smart cities are becoming a modern way of collecting and processing information, providing decision makers a better understanding of the complex interactions of people and services in a city. However, issues such as utilization of data from untrusted sources or manipulation of data present a risk. Brent Lagasse, an assistant professor in the Computing & Software Systems Division at theUniversity of Washington Bothell, is working on a Smart City Research Project "Secure Crowdsensing for Improving Smart City Applications" that seeks to improve security properties with an International Research Experiences for Students (IRES) grant ($299,030 over three years) from the National Science Foundation (NSF). UW Bothell currently offers an undergraduate and graduate degree option in cybersecurity:Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering with an Information Assurance & Cybersecurity option, and aMaster of Science in Cybersecurity Engineering. Each year, the grant will provide funding for three cohorts of five students (ten weeks each) to travel and conduct research at the University of Bamberg, Germany. They will research ways to utilize crowd sourced information while protecting the city from malicious users who might spy on them through their data. Students will test and build defense mechanisms and privacy enhancing technologies using combinations of game theory and machine learning. The University of Bamberg operates a Smart City Living Laboratory using sensors throughout Bamberg, Germany that collects information such as noise levels, CO2 levels and the number of people in a particular area. This data will allow students and Lagasse to validate the effectiveness of their security systems. With the opportunity to conduct hands-on research at the University of Bamberg, this research will pursue safer, more intelligent smart cities with the potential to improve energy efficiency, communication, transportation and public health. WINTER 2019 Thomas Humphries and Dong Si receive UW Royalty Research Fund In the field of tomography (CT) imaging, there is a lot of interest in reducing radiation exposure to patients. Currently this can be achieved by collecting less X-ray data or by using a lower X-ray beam intensity, but both of these approaches degrade the quality of the reconstructed CT image. Thomas Humphries, Engineering & Mathematics assistant professor, and Dong Si, Computing & Software Systems assistant professor, will explore this research area thanks to a $32,676 UW Royalty Research Fund (RRF) grant for their project Deep Learning for Computed Tomography Image Reconstruction. Their project is about using deep learning to improve the quality of computed CT images, so that patients are safer without sacrificing quality image results. The idea behind deep learning is to train an artificial neural network to look at the degraded image and produce a more accurate one. Our project is investigating different approaches towards doing this for a variety of challenging imaging scenarios, said Humphries. In addition to making contributions to the fields of CT imaging and deep learning, this project aims to provide students with exposure to methods in machine learning that will make them more competitive in the job market after graduation. Several UW Bothell students have focused their capstone projects in this research area, and as part of the RRF they will be hiring two UW Bothell undergraduate students to work with them full time over the summer. AUTUMN 2018 Professor of Practice Arnie Lund, connecting to industry in the community Arnie Lund, professor of practice for the CSS division of the School of STEM, uses his extensive experience within the tech industry to prepare students for the evolving needs of the trade. Throughout his career, he has worked for various companies such as Bell Labs, Ameritech, US West Advanced, Technologies, and Sapient, Microsoft, GE Global Research, and Amazon leading teams of software engineers through different stages of their careers. My current role is about leveraging that 38 years of industry experience to provide students a window into their future career, and strategies for managing those careers, said Lund. In 2018 he focused on the transition from the tech industry to academia. During fall quarter, he taught CSS and IMD students about the generative phase of the design process in integrative studio practicum, software engineering, and principles of human-computer interaction. Lund works on bringing an industrial perspective to his classroom as he collaborates with colleagues from previous companies and new connections to guest lecture on campus. His goal as the professor of practice is to continue building bridges between that world of working in software engineering in the tech industry and efforts in STEM. Lund is developing a new course called Usability and User-Centered Design and will be supporting more independent studies, capstones, and thesis committees. In addition, he has worked on gathering a CSS advisory board. The board consists of a dozen representatives from a variety of computing and software companies. The boards first meeting will take place for the first time this winter. Lund explains the boards mission is to grow the relationship between the UW Bothell School of STEM CSS program and industry and community partners, in order to promote collaborative research, the exchange of expertise, shape the CSS program to better prepare and support students seeking careers in industry, and to advance strategic initiatives. Archive 2016-2017 University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Computing Software Systems Box 358534 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5279 Fax: 425.352.5216 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: cssinfo@u.washington.edu University of Washington Bothell PrivacyTerms Site information Our Campus Academic AffairsPlanning & AdministrationAdvancement and External RelationsCampus SafetyOffice of the ChancellorFacility ServicesHuman ResourcesParking and TransitResearch Support Campus Life AccessibilityFinancial AidFood ServicesHousingInformation TechnologiesStudent LifeUW Bothell AlertTuition Academics CanvasCatalystLibraryTime Schedule Connect with us
