Dr. Jennifer Karlin | Minnesota State University, Mankato Skip to main content Visit Apply More Home News and Events Library Search Open Menu Search Site navigation Close College of Science, Engineering & Technology About the University About the University Fast Facts Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Partnerships Office of the President News and Events Maps and Transportation Office Directory We are Minnesota Minnesota State Mankato is a place where big ideas become real-world solutions that have a positive impact across Minnesota. Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Tuition and Aid Request Information Minnesota State Mankato supplies its students with countless valuableopportunitieswhether it be starting a business with your Integrated Business Experience classmates in a low-risk environment, leading 30-40 new students as a Community Advisor during their transition to college, or joining a club or organization that presents critical values, beliefs, and support. Harley Ries, Current Student Academics Academics Degree Programs and Certificates Graduate Studies Research Academic Support Online and Off-Campus Programs Global Education Course Planning and Registration Academic Catalog Colleges Athletics University Life University Life Activities & Organizations Campus Recreation Centennial Student Union Career Development Center University Services Housing Diversity and Inclusion Health and Safety Giving Giving Ways to Give Funding Priorities Impact Stories Giving Recognition Foundation Development Staff Daryl Henze, '65Why I Give Help from a scholarship allowed Daryl to achieve an education at Minnesota State Mankato. Now he pays it forward by supporting our students of today. Home News and Events Library Covid-19 Status: Orange Covid-19 Daily Self-Screening Covid-19 Campus Response Return to Learn Updates College of Science, Engineering & Technology Departments Department of Integrated Engineering Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Dr. Jennifer Karlin Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Dr. Jennifer Karlin, Professor PhD | IRE Bell Program | Faculty Address: Office | 1001 Chestnut St W, Virginia, MN 55792 Phone: 605-209-2404 Email: jennifer.karlin@mnsu.edu Degree PhD in Industrial and Operations Engineering from the University of Michigan Research Areas Student development Faculty development Building healthy organizations Operational excellence Economic development Dr. Jennifer Karlin received her undergraduate degree from Washington University in St. Louis and her PhD in industrial and operations engineering from the University of Michigan, specializing in engineering management. Her dissertation defined lean logistics. As far as her committee could determine, she was the first person in the industrial and operational engineering department to successfully defend a solely qualitative methodology dissertation. While a graduate student at the University of Michigan, she taught a senior elective and worked for the Center for Research on Learning and Teaching. Jen spent the first half of her faculty career at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, where she was a professor of industrial engineering held the Pietz Professorship for entrepreneurship and economic development. She taught courses in engineering management, quality, strategy, and operational excellence (e.g. lean and six sigma) in both the industrial engineering and engineering management undergraduate and graduate programs. She served a five year term as the Coordinator of Faculty Development for the university. Jen is happy to have joined the progressive, innovative team in the department of integrated engineering where she learns alongside her colleagues, whether they be students, faculty, or staff. In her research, Jen studies colleges and universities as organizations and how adjustments in organizational infrastructure can create positive change. She considers infrastructure artifacts at all levels, including learning spaces, policies and procedures, governance, and interactions across the ecosystem. Jens work is rooted in the core areas of economic development, organizational excellence, and holistic learner development. Within organizational excellence, she specializes in transformational processes, such as lean thinking, six sigma, and effective change management (both strategic change and process improvement). She has also combined these areas to develop systems for change in, and evaluate organizational health of, universities as organizations. These systems include organizational learning, organizational culture and climate, faculty development, and other precursors for student and faculty success. This combination resulted in a National Science Foundation CAREER award. Her work has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the United States Air Force (through a congressional earmark), and the Material Handling Industry of America (MHIA). Toggle menu Future Students Current Students Alumni, Donors and Friends Faculty and Staff Mankato, MN 560011-800-722-0544 News and Events Directories Find Us Contacts Library employment Legal Information Future Students Current Students Alumni, Donors and Friends Faculty and Staff Visit Campus Virtual Tour Apply Today 2005-2020 Minnesota State University, Mankato | privacy | annual security report | website feedback
