Dr. Jacob Swanson | Minnesota State University, Mankato Skip to main content Visit Apply More Home News and Events Library Search Open Menu Search Site navigation Close College of Science, Engineering & Technology About the University About the University Fast Facts Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Partnerships Office of the President News and Events Maps and Transportation Office Directory We are Minnesota Minnesota State Mankato is a place where big ideas become real-world solutions that have a positive impact across Minnesota. Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Tuition and Aid Request Information Minnesota State Mankato supplies its students with countless valuableopportunitieswhether it be starting a business with your Integrated Business Experience classmates in a low-risk environment, leading 30-40 new students as a Community Advisor during their transition to college, or joining a club or organization that presents critical values, beliefs, and support. Harley Ries, Current Student Academics Academics Degree Programs and Certificates Graduate Studies Research Academic Support Online and Off-Campus Programs Global Education Course Planning and Registration Academic Catalog Colleges Athletics University Life University Life Activities & Organizations Campus Recreation Centennial Student Union Career Development Center University Services Housing Diversity and Inclusion Health and Safety Giving Giving Ways to Give Funding Priorities Impact Stories Giving Recognition Foundation Development Staff Daryl Henze, '65Why I Give Help from a scholarship allowed Daryl to achieve an education at Minnesota State Mankato. Now he pays it forward by supporting our students of today. Home News and Events Library Covid-19 Status: Orange Covid-19 Daily Self-Screening Covid-19 Campus Response Return to Learn Updates College of Science, Engineering & Technology Departments Department of Integrated Engineering Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Dr. Jacob Swanson Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Dr. Jacob Swanson, Associate Professor, Twin Cities Engineering PhD | Faculty Address: Office | 9700 France Ave South, Ste P0822, Bloomington, MN 55431-4399 Phone: 952-358-9194 Email: jacob.swanson@mnsu.edu Dr. Jacob Swanson is an Associate Professor of Engineering in the Twin Cities Engineering Program in the Department of Integrated Engineering at Minnesota State University, Mankato. He was previously a Research Associate in the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge, UK and before that, a graduate of the University of Minnesotas Mechanical Engineering Department. Prof. Swanson is internationally recognized for his work on emissions from combustion engines, including those from gas turbines, and the evaluation of diesel and gasoline engine emission control technology. Other interests include gas-phase particle synthesis, particle measurement instrumentation, and renewable energy generation. He has published ~40 papers and given more than 100 conference presentations on these topics. Degree PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Minnesota Research Areas Internal combustion engines and emissions Gas-phase particle synthesis Instrumentation Low cost air quality sensors Renewable Energy Toggle menu Future Students Current Students Alumni, Donors and Friends Faculty and Staff Mankato, MN 560011-800-722-0544 News and Events Directories Find Us Contacts Library employment Legal Information Future Students Current Students Alumni, Donors and Friends Faculty and Staff Visit Campus Virtual Tour Apply Today 2005-2020 Minnesota State University, Mankato | privacy | annual security report | website feedback
