Dr. Bob Nelson | Minnesota State University, Mankato Skip to main content Visit Apply More Home News and Events Library Search Open Menu Search Site navigation Close College of Science, Engineering & Technology About the University About the University Fast Facts Student Success Diversity and Inclusion Partnerships Office of the President News and Events Maps and Transportation Office Directory We are Minnesota Minnesota State Mankato is a place where big ideas become real-world solutions that have a positive impact across Minnesota. Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Tuition and Aid Request Information Minnesota State Mankato supplies its students with countless valuableopportunitieswhether it be starting a business with your Integrated Business Experience classmates in a low-risk environment, leading 30-40 new students as a Community Advisor during their transition to college, or joining a club or organization that presents critical values, beliefs, and support. Harley Ries, Current Student Academics Academics Degree Programs and Certificates Graduate Studies Research Academic Support Online and Off-Campus Programs Global Education Course Planning and Registration Academic Catalog Colleges Athletics University Life University Life Activities & Organizations Campus Recreation Centennial Student Union Career Development Center University Services Housing Diversity and Inclusion Health and Safety Giving Giving Ways to Give Funding Priorities Impact Stories Giving Recognition Foundation Development Staff Daryl Henze, '65Why I Give Help from a scholarship allowed Daryl to achieve an education at Minnesota State Mankato. Now he pays it forward by supporting our students of today. Home News and Events Library Covid-19 Status: Orange Covid-19 Daily Self-Screening Covid-19 Campus Response Return to Learn Updates College of Science, Engineering & Technology Departments Department of Integrated Engineering Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Dr. Bob Nelson Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Integrated Engineering Faculty and Staff Dr. Robert Nelson Vita Dr. Robert Nelson, Associate Professor, Iron Range Engineering Ph.D. | Faculty Address: Office | 1001 Chestnut St W, Virginia, MN 55792 Phone: Email: robert.nelson@mnsu.edu DEGREE PhD in Engineering (Electrical focus) from North Dakota State University RESEARCH AREAS EMI / EMC (Electromagnetic Interference / Compatibility) Engineering Education Engineering applications of electromagnetic fields including antennas, transmission lines, and sensors Dr. Robert Nelson is currently an Associate Professor of Engineering at Iron Range Engineering, Virginia, MN. Dr. Nelson received a B.A. degree in mathematics from Northland College, Ashland, WI, the M.S.E.E. degree from Washington State University, Pullman, WA, and the Ph.D. from North Dakota State University (NDSU). He previously served as a faculty member at the University of Wisconsin Stout, North Dakota State University and the University of Idaho. Dr. Nelson has also been a member of the technical staff of Bell Telephone Laboratories and has consulted with Michigan Technological University and Lawrence Livermore National Labs; NDSU Center for Nanoscale Science and Engineering; Eglin Air Force Base; Otter Tail Power Company; and the Naval Undersea Warfare Center, New London, CT. Dr. Nelson has been actively teaching and conducting research in the area of applied electromagnetics, including antennas, transmission lines, microwave engineering since 1981. Toggle menu Future Students Current Students Alumni, Donors and Friends Faculty and Staff Mankato, MN 560011-800-722-0544 News and Events Directories Find Us Contacts Library employment Legal Information Future Students Current Students Alumni, Donors and Friends Faculty and Staff Visit Campus Virtual Tour Apply Today 2005-2020 Minnesota State University, Mankato | privacy | annual security report | website feedback
