Alumni | Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering | University of Colorado Boulder Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Close Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering College of Engineering and Applied Science Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering Menu Main menu HomeAbout UsAcademicsAdmissionsResearchPeopleNews & Events Secondary Menu EngageHire ME BuffsPartnerWork Here Mobile menuHome About Us Academics Admissions Research People News & Events Engage Hire ME Buffs Partner Work Here Faculty & Staff Resources Contact Us Accreditation Partner Universities BreadcrumbHome People Alumni Alumni Career Area All Aerospace Air Quality Biomedical Construction Controls Design Energy Entrepreneurship Investing Manufacturing Software All Alan Fasick BS '94 Information Systems Security and System Administration Manager, Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) | University of Colorado Boulder A little about my career path: After graduating from CU Boulder, I started out in a more traditional IT job in the Facilities Management department here on the Boulder campus... Alex Khaldy BS '18 Sales Engineer | Eaton A little about my career path: I am currently working at Eaton as a Sales Engineer. I interned with them during the summer before my senior year and was offered a full time position upon graduation. I'm planning to pursue an MBA in the... Alex Jaros BS '19 System Engineer | Northrop Grumman I am a System Engineer for Northrop Grumman's Mission System sector currently working on a program that supports the Missile Defense Agency. I provide system support and analysis for my program's testing and integration team. Additionally, I am in the Northrop Grumman Pathways... Aly Badran BS '15, MS '16 PhD Student in Aerospace | University of Colorado A little about my career path: I came to CU as an exchange student from Egypt in Fall of 2013. After the fall semester I transferred to the Mechanical Engineering department. After transferring I had a chance to... Andrew Baugher BS 2015 Mechanisms Test Engineer | Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company (SSC) A little about my career path: I started at CU working towards a physics degree and loved the hands on work so much I added a major in M.E. as well. I started with LM right after graduation... Andrew Oliver Associate - Software Engineering in Training | Capital One Currently, I work for Capital One in Richmond, Virginia where I am partaking in a 6-month software-engineering immersive training program that focuses on teaching non-CS majors the fundamentals of designing web pages and the back-end applications that support them. I still... Arlen Ward BS 2002, MS 2004 Modeling and Simulation Principal | System Insight Engineering A little about my career path: 14 years at Valleylab/Covidien/Medtronic with a focus on simulation in R&D. Now an engineering consultant in the same area. Ask me about: Computational Modeling and Simulation, FEA, Virtual Prototyping, Design Optimization, Medical... Ashley Zimmerer BS '16 Solutions Engineering | Avaya Ashley is a Boulder native with a BSME from CU Boulder in 2016. She's been working as a Solutions Engineer at Avaya (Telecom Industry) in San Jose, CA for the past couple of years. She recently moved back to Boulder to be closer to... Bharat Bhushan MS '73, PhD '76 Ohio Eminent Scholar and The Howard D. Winbigler Professor | Ohio State University Bharat Bhushan received an MS in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1971, an MS in mechanics and a PhD in mechanical engineering from the University of Colorado at Boulder... Bob Wills BS 69, MS 70 President | Murphys Corporate Lodging Inc. 30 years experience in oil and gas industry, in engineering, sales, and management. Former officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. Purchased Murphys Corporate Lodging in July 2000. Brent Galas BS '02 Senior Mechanical Design Engineer | Spectra Logic A little about my career path: From designing 6 products in Costco and traveling to Asia for 7 years to OEM parts for SUV's and trucks to designing and sustaining the largest storage libraries in the world. Ask me about: Design,... Caitlyn Hughes BS '18 Sustaining Engineer | Medtronic Caitlyn Hughes is a Sustaining Engineer at Medtronic, Boulder, who works in the Minimally Invasive Therapies Group (MITG) specializing in Respiratory Monitoring Systems. Her current project is focused on maintaining global regulatory (TUV, FDA, SGS) approval related to a Video Laryngoscope ensuring product can... Carlye Lauff MS 2015, PhD 2018 (expected) PhD Candidate | University of Colorado Boulder A little about my career path: The Masters in Design through Mechanical Engineering opened my eyes to the world of Product Design Engineering. This has helped me create a career path for myself focused on research in the... Chip Bollendonk BSMS '17 Mechanical Engineer | Syncroness Chip Bollendonk is a mechanical engineer at Syncroness, a product development firm in Westminster, CO. He has been with Syncroness since graduating from the University of Colorado Boulder in 2017 with his MS and BS degrees in Mechanical Engineering and a minor in Leadership... Chris Freer BS '90 Engineering Manager | Farnsworth Group A little about my career path: Navy ROTC at CU led me to 5 years of Navy nuclear power. After leaving active duty, I 'fell into' the mechanical engineering design portion of the construction industry, where I am privileged to work on professional... Chris Schmachtenberger BSME 1979 Director World Wide Media Manufacturing | Carestream Health A little about my career path: Began my career as process control engineer for a large manufacturing company Had the opportunity to move into leadership position for an engineering group Leveraged my engineering education and leadership skills to hold other... Chris Williams BS 2007 Project Manager | Flatiron Construction A little about my career path: I started as a young engineer working for a general contractor managing specific scopes of construction for large bridge projects on the west coast. I've grown into both the business and management aspects of those construction projects... Connor Weisse BS '15 Applications Engineer | 3D Systems A little about my career path: While still early in the journey, my career started in the healthcare industry. In particular the use of 3D printing to create patient specific and generic medical devices. I spent the first few years focusing on the... Courtney Foss BS, MS 2016 Equipment Supplier Engineer | Terumo BCT A little about my career path: I am passionate about engineering to improve lives and this passion has led me to a career in the medical device industry. Dan Riffell Scholar in Residence | CU Boulder Department of Mechanical Engineering Research interests include Biomass Utilization, Energy Production and Pilot Plant Design. Dana Shinn BS '81 IT Manager - Logistics | DJO A little about my career path: A well respected Information Technology Manager with than 30 years of diversified manufacturing experience across multiple industries. Extensive background in managing Information Systems projects including multiple ERP implementations across multiple platforms. Experienced at interfacing and understanding... Daniel Tsvankin Mech. Design Engineer - Pharma | Springs ATG (and previously Textron) I joined Textron's Leadership Development Program straight out of CU (with a two-month jaunt through Europe in between, of course), completing three rotations at two business units in two years: Production Support & VA/VE at Textron Specialized Vehicles (Arctic... Dario Atallah BS 84, MBA '90 Senior Director, Product Solutions | Decisiv, Inc. A little about my career path: Over 30 years working in R&D, Manufacturing, Services, and Software in automation, robotics, medical devices, IT and weather industries. Started working on system optimization and analysis in startups, moved to design engineering and... Dave Drach BS 1985 - Mech Engr VP Corporate Strategy | Techstars A little about my career path: Started out building robots for Boeing, now work on building a worldwide network that helps entrepreneurs succeed. Ask me about: Entrepreneurship engagement of engineers. Dave Wolenski BS 83 Owner, President | Electro-Mechanical Products, Inc. A little about my career path: EMP is a manufacturer of precision-machined components and thermal management devices used by OEMs in the semiconductor, medical, laser, and commercial/high-tech industry sectors. David Caputa BS '19 Electronics Engineer | Lockheed Martin Space Throughout my college education, I loved working on projects that combined both mechanical and electrical engineering. During my junior year, I started learning about electronics packaging and PCB design. This passion led me to my current position where I get to design... Diana Manning BS 84 Engineering Consultant | Base2 Solutions Diana graduated with a BSME from CU in 1984. Due to tough times in the Denver area, Diana found a job with Boeing in Seattle, WA. She has spent 32+ years at the Boeing Company working primarily in Propulsion Systems (engines and their... Donald Strickland CEO | Visionary Moments Emily Chesnut BS 2016 Mechanical Design Engineer | Seagate Technology A little about my career path: I worked as an intern at Seagate during the summer in 2015 and continued working part time during my senior year at CU. I was offered a full time job at Seagate in December of my... Emily Hanson BS '14, MBA '19 Lead Program Manager | General Electric A little about my career path: Program Manager for industrial LED lighting projects lights used in huge warehouses and storage facilities. Primary role is to manage design and manufacturing engineering teams. Ask me about: Industrial lighting, MBA program through Leeds Erik Hofvander BS 2008 A little about my career path: Got a passion for robotics in Undergraduate. Continued that path. Ask me about: Control Systems. Robotics. Gardner Nichols BS '16 Dynamics Engineer/Test Driver | Fiat Chrysler Automobiles A little about my career path: I am currently a Vehicle Dynamics Test Engineer and Test Driver with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. I was a member of the inaugural CU SAE Baja Team, which prepared me quite well for my career path... Gary Marshall BS '19 Project Manager | EmergenTek I am a Venezuelan-American pursuing a double master's degree in mechanical engineering design and engineering management. I graduated in 2019 with a BS in mechanical engineering and a minor in physics and engineering management. I'm a licensed EIT, a certified professional in SolidWorks, Six... Hamed Yazdi BS '14, MS '16 Business Development Manager | Tech-30 A little about my career path: After completing my BS in Mechanical Engineering and ME in Engineering Management, I started my first job as an account manager for Siemens Energy, selling high voltage transmission and distribution equipment to utilities and construction... Hannah Steketee BS '17 Systems Engineer | Terumo BCT A little about my career path: I am a systems engineer at Terumo BCT where I get to work on exciting new projects in the innovation and development department. Ask me about: Terumo's internship program, transitioning to industry after graduation, skiing, travel and... Herb Vogel BS 82 Executive Vice President Operations SM Energy 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry in Colorado and around the world. Prior to joining SM Energy, served as President of BP Energy Co. Hiral Gandhi Systems Engineer As a recent graduate of the MSME program, I now work as a Systems Engineer in the space industry. Prior to this, I have professional experience in shock, vibration and loading in the hands-on capacity of a technician and strategic capacity of a test engineer. Jason Cloyd BS '95 Director, Global Academia Sales, SOLIDWORKS | Dassault Systemes SolidWorks Corp A little about my career path: I spent the first several years of my career as a mechanical design engineer, working on crazy things like avalanche airbags, portable fuel cells, dog toys, cryogenic research equipment and even a... Jeff Sokol BS 1995 Department Manager, Mechanical Engineering | Ball Aerospace A little about my career path: I have worked at Ball Aerospace since graduation (1995). My career has progressed from detailed mechanical design of mechanisms and optical systems to project technical management, and now to department management. I expect to continue... Jeffrey Carlson BS 2015 Mechanical/Systems Engineer | NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory A little about my career path: While in school at CU, I applied for an internship at JPL - it was amazing, and I decided I would land a job there. I contacted as many supervisors and asked them to interview... Joel Johnson BS '81 Owner, Managing Director | Berrendo Energy LLC A little about my career path: I entered the oil and gas facility design business after CU and then decided to change careers and received an MBA. I went into Environmental and Energy Efficiency consulting performing various technical and managerial roles... John Mollenkopf BS 1983 EVP and Chief Operating Officer MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. (Retired) | Retired A little about my career path: Graduated from CU Boulder with BSME 1983 and went to work in the oil and gas industry for ARCO that same year. Worked as a process and project engineer for... Kailee Cox BS/MS '18 Mechanical Engineer I | Plexus Engineering Solutions A little about my career path: After interning with them during my last semester of my Masters program, I joined Plexus Engineering Solutions as a full-time ME I. I have worked on several medical device projects in many stages of the... Kassi Butler BS '17 Mechanical Engineer | FIRST RF Corporation A little about my career path: While I was studying Mechanical Engineering at CU, I gained manufacturing experience as a student assistant in the ITLL machine shop. I heard about FIRST RF through a career fair on campus and worked as a... Katie Simon BS '18 Mechanical Engineer 1 | Plexus A little about my career path: I have recently started my career in consulting at Plexus, working on everything from healthcare to aerospace to commercial products. I really enjoy the variety and challenges that come with consulting, and the creativity that design engineering... Kayla Crum BS '18 Systems Engineer | Terumo BCT Kayla Crum is a systems engineer at Terumo BCT working on the development and testing of new medical devices. Kayla graduated from the CU Mechanical Engineering department in 2018. She currently lives in Highlands Ranch with her husband and their dog. Kayla Maranjian BS: 2009, MS: 2010 Senior New Product Development Engineer | Medtronic A little about my career path: In undergrad, I enjoyed mechanical engineering classes, but couldn't see myself in a career until I found the biomedical engineering option. Ever since, I've been interning and working full time in the medical... Kenny Wise BS 2015 Founder | New West Design Lab A little about my career path: As a Sophomore in Mechanical Engineering I worked for CIRES at CU as a machinist apprentice. I quickly became fascinated with functional aesthetics and had a number of projects outside of work and class. After graduation... Kent Rooks BS 1978 Managing Director | ESPecial Consultants LLC Kent Rooks is the Managing Director of ESPecial Consultants LLC, which provides Artificial Lift solutions for oil production to oil industry. Kent is currently under contract with Quantum Reservoir Engineering Impact, a Houston based Think Tank that supplies internationally recognized industrial consulting... Kevin Martin BS' 16 Co-founder | Unspun I ran a robotic camera motion startup throughout undergrad, and knew I wanted to work on a large-scale robotics company after graduation. Though I wasn't planning to start a company, I met my would-be co-founders a few weeks after graduation at CU, and we officially... Khiem (Dan) Nguyen BS '17 Software/Robotics Engineer | Northrop Grumman Krishan Patel BS 2014, MS 2017 Mission Operations Systems Engineer - Odyssey & Maven | Lockheed Martin A little about my career path: Started out in mechanical engineering and, a little ways in, picked up a double major in Applied Mathematics. Really liked my professors and wanted to challenge myself. Had a... Lilly Herrick-Reynolds BS '16 Engineer I | Apecs Inc Max Peevey BS,MS 2007, 2018 Manufacturing Engineer | MKS Instruments A little about my career path: Started as a machinist, then worked as a consultant, now working for the company Ask me about: How to analyze data to determine the questions that you need to ask. How to make an engineering decision... Michael Stockman MS '81 Director | WMD Asset Management, LLC A little about my career path: Mr. Stockman spearheads the new investment products and strategic planning initiatives in WMDs Office of the CIO and member of the Senior Living Investment Team. Mr. Stockman brings 30 years of experience in leadership roles at... Mike Holt BS '15 Hardware Engineer | Lockheed Martin A little about my career path: I had a job offer right out of college with an HVAC company as an inside salesman. I worked for that company for two years and learned the industry. I decided I wanted to pursue a career... Mike McCue BS '90 President | Accu-Precision A little about my career path: I became an owner-operator of a contract manufacturing company after trying a number of different, but ultimately complementary careers. Early in my career, I worked in a large company, Chevron, completing large projects with large groups of people. I... Miles Abarr MS '13, PhD '16 Lead Systems Engineer | Bright Energy Storage Technologies Morgan Hill Senior Mechanical Engineer I started my career at Medtronic developing microwave ablation systems with electromagnetic navigation. After 4 years there, I was ready for a new chapter and moved to San Francisco as a design engineer for medical devices. I then worked for Doctors Without Borders (Medecins Sans Frontieres, MSF)... Morgan McQuain BS '18 Project Engineer | Skyline Construction Nick Clements BS,MS,PhD 2009, 2010, 2013 Research Engineer | Well Living Lab A little about my career path: My short career has taken a odd few turns, but I've always endeavored to conduct research to improve public health. Now (and hopefully for the foreseeable future!), that research is taking the form of... Nils Tellier BS 1989 Principal | EPSIM Corporation A little about my career path: Licensed professional engineer with 25 years of experience in gas processes and 10 years of experience in wholesale power trading and electric utilities operations. Principal and Founder of EPSIM, Corp. Ask me about: Areas of interest include cryogenic... Param Singh BS 68, MS 70, PhD 74 in Aerospace Retired | AbioMed One of two named inventors of the AbioCor, the first total artificial heart (Patent 4,888,011). Phil Bollam BS '07 Processing Manager | Danone North America A little about my career path: After graduating, I worked as a project manager for an engineering firm focused in the food and beverage industry. I then shifted to operations working for PepsiCo and then on to Danone in Salt Lake City... Phil Nystrom During my time at CU I worked in research, ultimately perusing a masters degree with a thesis on electrowetting optics. I started my career developing and building active implantable medical devices. Currently I work at CONMED developing advanced surgical products. Rachel Sobke BS 2014 Project Engineer | Stolle Machinery A little about my career path: I worked as a facilities engineer in the oil and gas industry for the first few years out of college. About a year and a half ago, I switched industries and began working in machine design for... Rick Koerner BS '93 Owner | STACK Subs A little about my career path: BS 1993 Mechanical Engineering, MBA 2001 University of Southern California. After graduating from CU Engineering, I followed a business path where I was a management consultant at a local firm, Xenergy for 2 years followed by a global... Ruhan Yang Ruhan Yang is a design engineer who will never stop exploring and creating. As a co-founder of EdBoard Technologies, she has been working on designing toys and tools for many years. She is currently a master's student in ATLAS, focus on toy design. Samantha Kelly-Borjon BS 2012 Mechanical Engineer II | Ball Aerospace A little about my career path: I started college as a Theater major, ended up graduating as a mechanical engineer. I have been working in the aerospace for 6 years designing anything from cables, to optics, to transport fixtures. I'm currently getting... Samantha Preston BS '18 Mechanical Design Engineer | Medtronic A little about my career path: I currently work at Medtronic as a Mechanical Design Engineer. I previously have interned and worked as a biomedical and test engineer for Medtronic. I am passionate about the medical device industry and improving people's lives though... Sami Maierhofer BS,MS 2016 Process Development Engineer | Terumo BCT A little about my career path: After graduation I started out at Terumo BCT as an intern in the disposables development group. At the end of the Summer there was an opening for an entry level position in the process development group... Sarah Lafasto BS 2017 Systems Engineer Associate | Ball Aerospace A little about my career path: I always just seized simple opportunities and put a lot of effort into building relationships. Hard work and enthusiasm can get you most places. Ask me about: Systems Engineering, technical communication, public speaking. Sarah Schindhelm Senior Engineer | Ball Aerospace I took a whole lot of classes at CU before settling on mechanical engineering. I worked as an undergraduate research assistant at the Center for Astrophysics and Space Astronomy, where I learned a lot about space-based instrumentation design, manufacturing and testing. I started working as... Scott Vining BS '18 Manufacturing Engineer | Medtronic After graduating in May of 2018 I received a job on contract at Medtronics Boulder office working in Quality and Regulatory Affairs. When that contract ended, I got a new position as a Manufacturing Engineer still with Medtronic working under their Restorative Therapies Group... Sienna Magee MS '18, ME '18 Product Manager | Nordson Medical Sreyas Krishnan BSME 2012, MSME 2016 Propulsion Systems Design Engineer | United Launch Alliance A little about my career path: I was a burned out DJ/producer and bored pipe support designer/analyst when I was accepted into CU's Design Master's Program. I came out of the program with a renewed passion for engineering... Stephen Wong IoT Firmware Engineer | Gates Corporation I started Mechanical Engineering with the intent of potentially going into Biomedical but ended up diverging and ultimately becoming a Firmware Engineer specializing in mechanical system performance monitoring. I've worked in a variety of industries ranging from Oil and Gas, Manufacturing and Tech. Ask... Steven Gensmer BS 2007, MS 2015 Ride & Show Engineer: Universal Creative. I am currently the lead attraction engineer for several new rides and shows that are being developed for the Universal Studios theme parks in Beijing, China and Osaka, Japan. My work includes Ride Systems, Animatronic Figures, Special Effects, Hydraulic/Pneumatic Systems,... Svein Hasund BS 1967 Retired - Oil & Gas Industry Svein's first surprise and impression when arriving in Boulder from Norway in 1965, was how beautiful the scenery was with the Rockies and Flatirons in the background. His second surprise came when he registered at CU and was awarded a scholarship of... Tom Ebner BS '85 CEO & President | Xtreme Power Conversion (XPC) Corporation A little about my career path: After graduating in December 1985 with a BSME I was hired by a small manufacturer's rep company, AC Systems, located in Denver. While with AC Systems I sold Power and Cooling equipment for... Tom McLagan BSME 79 President Hyder Construction Inc. 30 years of experience in general construction and real estate development. Leads a mid-sized Colorado based commercial general contractor. Will Obitz BS '19 Mechanical Engineer I Springs ATG I graduated in May of 2019 from CU and enjoy combining my hands-on knowledge with my engineering degree to solve problems. I am currently an engineer for a company in the manufacturing industry that specializes in gloveboxes and hot cells for nuclear and... Zach Hoh BSME 1989 Senior Engineering Manager, Mechanical Engineering Talent Development Ball Aerospace A little about my career path: I started working at Ball Aerospace at the end of my junior year at CU-Boulder. I got my start working in the machine shop issuing raw materials. I got the opportunity to support... Want to be included? We'd love to add your alumni information to our online directory. Send us a photo and brief career bio and we'll add you to the list of outstanding CU Boulder mechanical engineering graduates. Name * Email * Degree * Bachelor's Master of Science Thesis Master of Science Professional PhD Graduating Year(s) * Current Title and Employer * Bio * Photo * Files must be less than 12 MB.Allowed file types: gif jpg jpeg png. Leave this field blank Add My Bio Join our Alumni LinkedIn Group Share Share via FacebookShare via TwitterShare via LinkedIn LinkedIn Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Apply Visit Give Departments Ann and H.J. Smead Aerospace EngineeringSciences Chemical & Biological Engineering Civil, Environmental & Architectural Engineering Computer Science Electrical, Computer & Energy Engineering Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering Programs Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Creative Technology & Design Engineering Management Engineering Physics Engineering Plus Environmental Engineering Materials Science &Engineering Affiliates & Partners ATLAS Institute BOLD Center Colorado Mesa University Colorado Space Grant Consortium Discovery Learning Engineering Honors Engineering Leadership Entrepreneurship Herbst Program for Engineering, Ethics & Society Idea Forge Integrated Teaching and Learning Global Engineering Mortenson Center for Global Engineering Western Colorado University Footer menu Faculty & Staff ResourcesContact UsAccreditationPartner Universities Connect With Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Paul M. Rady Mechanical Engineering 1111 Engineering Drive UCB 427 Boulder, Colorado 80309-0427 ME Front Desk: 303-735-8054 General Inquiries: mefrontdesk@colorado.edu Graduate Program Inquiries: megrad@colorado.edu Undergraduate Program Inquiries: ceasadmissions@colorado.edu College of Engineering & Applied Science Phone: 303-492-5071 Email:cueng@colorado.edu University of Colorado Boulder Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy Legal & Trademarks Campus Map Return to the top of the page
