Jackson, Meyer Department of Neuroscience UWMadison Skip to main content University of WisconsinMadison UW Crest Department of Neuroscience School of Medicine and Public Health Search Menu open menu close Home Faculty Expand Collapse Faculty Biographies Neuroscience Emeritus Affiliates Research Areas Students Expand Collapse Undergraduate Courses Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Course Guide WiscMail Resources Expand Collapse Research Links Neuroscience Directory Information Technology UW School of Medicine and Public Health Medical Library McBurney Disability Resource Center Poetry Archive News & Events Expand Collapse Department News Current Events Seminars Job Opportunities Contact Expand Collapse Contact Us Maps & Directions Seminar Rooms Donations PubMed UW Directory UW Email UW Box Home Jackson, Meyer Meyer Jackson Position title: The Kenneth S Cole Professor of Neuroscience Ph.D., 1977, Yale University Email: mbjackso@wisc.edu Phone: Phone: (608) 262-9111 | Lab: (608) 262-9112 | Fax: (608) 265-5512 Address: RESEARCH INTERESTS - Studies of synaptic mechanisms at the molecular, cellular, and circuit levels Postdoctoral Fellow position available (click here) Students interested in graduate study can apply to the following Ph.D programs: Program in Biophysics Neuroscience Training Program Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology Program Graduate Program in Cell and Molecular Biology Our research focuses broadly on the function of nerve terminals, both how their neurotransmitter-filled vesicles fuse with the plasma membrane and how their excitability regulates the entry of Ca2+ to trigger membrane fusion. Our investigations of presynaptic mechanisms often take us into detailed studies at the molecular level, but we also venture in the opposite direction into questions about neural circuitry. To address these questions we employ the electrophysiological methods of patch clamping and amperometry, as well as a variety of forms of microscopy to image voltage and Ca2+. Studies in PC12 cells, a powerful model system, have been especially productive in providing insight into the basic mechanism of Ca2+-triggered exocytosis. We have adapted the classical ideas of single ion channel mechanisms to the study of the fusion pore. This fusion pore spans both the vesicle and plasma membranes and in many ways behaves like an ion channel. We measure the flux through single fusion pores with amperometry and the conductance of single fusion pores by performing phase-lock measurements with a patch clamp amplifier. Experiments with these methods (in collaboration with Ed Chapman of this department) have indicated which proteins form the fusion pore and which proteins control their opening and expansion. Figure 1 Fig. 1. An amperometry recording (below) signals three successive stages in exocytosis (above). The SNARE proteins, which play an essential role in exocytosis, are shown in different hypothetical configurations. We also do experiments on the posterior pituitary, and have used this preparation to investigate presynaptic excitability. We have identified and characterized the ion channels in pituitary nerve terminals and shown how various signaling systems can target these ion channels for modulation. Present efforts focus on the sigma receptor, which modulates several ion channels (in collaboration with Arnold Ruoho of the Pharmacology Department), and the NO/cGMP signaling system, which produces a unique use-dependent enhancement of excitability. We are also imaging intra-terminal Ca2+ with two-photon microscopy in order to characterize the cytoplasmic Ca2+ buffers and explore how the spatial dynamics of Ca2+ controls the time course of release. To relate what we learn at the molecular and cellular levels to neural circuit function we image electrical activity. Brain slices stained with a voltage sensitive dye can be imaged to follow the flow of electrical activity through a complex, intact neural circuit. This method is particularly powerful in detecting subtle variations in synaptic plasticity, and we have shown that long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices exhibits a complex form of spatial heterogeneity. We are also initiating a voltage imaging study of the superior colliculus (in collaboration with Michele Basso of this department), and we are attempting to develop genetically encoded voltage imaging probes (in collaboration with Baron Chanda of this department). Figure 2 Fig. 2. A hippocampal slice stained with voltage sensitive dye (left) was imaged. Blue traces are optical signals that report electrical activity at each location. To image synaptic plasticity (right) theta bursts were applied and a difference map was constructed. Selected Publications Bayguinov, P. O., Ma, Y., Gao, Y., Zhao, X., Jackson, M. B. Imaging Voltage in Genetically-Defined Neuronal Subpopulations with a Cre Recombinase-Targeted Hybrid Voltage Sensor. J Neurosci (2017, in press). Ma, Y., Bayguinov, P. O., Jackson, M. B. Action potential dynamics in fine axons probed with an axonally-targeted optical voltage sensor. eNeuro (2017, in press). Wright, B. J., Bickham-Wright, U., Yoshino, T., Jackson, M. B. H+ Channels in Embryonic Biomphalaria glabrata Cell Membranes: Putative Roles in Snail Host-Schistosome Interactions. PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases 11: e0005467 (2017). Ghitani, N., Bayguinov, P. O., Basso, M. A., Jackson, M. B. A Sodium Afterdepolarization in Rat Superior Colliculus Neurons and its Contribution to Population Activity. J Neurophysiol. 116: 191-200 (2016). McMahon, S. M. and Jackson, M. B. Multiple Cytosolic Calcium Buffers in Posterior Pituitary Nerve Terminals. J Gen Physiol. 147: 243-54 (2016). Chang, C. W., Chiang, C. W., Gaffaney, J. D., Chapman, E. R., Jackson, M. B. Lipid-anchored synaptobrevin provides little or no support for exocytosis or liposome fusion. J Biol Chem. 291: 2848-57 (2016). Jackson, M. B. The Hydrophobic Effect in Solute Partitioning and Interfacial Tension. Scientific Reports. 6:19265 (2016). Roper, L., Briguglio, J., Evans, C., Jackson, M. B., Chapman, E. R. Sex-Specific Regulation of Follicle Stimulating Hormone Secretion by Synaptotagmin 9. Nat Comm. 6:8645 (2015). Bayguinov, P. O.,Ghitani, N., Jackson, M. B., Basso, M. A. A Hard-Wired Priority Map in the Superior Colliculus Shaped by Asymmetric Inhibitory Circuitry. J. Neurophysiol.114:662-676 (2015). Chang, C. W. and Jackson, M. B. Synaptobrevin Transmembrane Domain Influences Exocytosis by Perturbing Vesicle Membrane Curvature. Biophys. J. 109:76-84 (2015). Chang, C.-W., Hui, E., Bai, J., Bruns, D., Chapman, E. R., and Jackson, M. B. A Structural Role for the Synaptobrevin 2 Transmembrane Domain in Dense-Core Vesicle Fusion Pores. J Neurosci. 35:5772-5780 (2015). Ghitani, N., Bayguinov, Ma, Y., and Jackson, M. B. Single-Trial Imaging of Spikes and Synaptic Potentials in Single Neurons in Brain Slices with Genetically-Encoded Hybrid Voltage Sensor. J. Neurophysiol. 113:1249-59 (2015). McMahon, S. M. and Jackson, M. B. In Situ Ca2+ Titration in the Fluorometric Study of Intracellular Ca2+ Binding. Cell Calcium 56:504-512 (2014). Wright, B. J. and Jackson, M. B. Long-Term Potentiation in Hilar Circuitry Modulates Gating by the Dentate Gyrus. J. Neurosci. 34: 9743-53 (2014). Vokoun, C. R., Huang, X., Jackson, M. B. and Basso, M. Response Normalization in the Superficial Layers of the Superior Colliculus as a Possible Mechanism for Saccadic Averaging. J. Neurosci. 34: 7976-87 (2014). 125. Ghitani, N., Bayguinov, P. O. Vokoun, C. R., McMahon, S., Jackson, M. B. and Basso, M. Excitatory Synaptic Feedback from the Motor Layer to the Sensory Layers of the Superior Colliculus. J. Neurosci. 34: 6822-33 (2014). Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Home Department News Faculty Biographies Job Opportunities Contact Us Maps & Directions Back to UW-Madison Contact UsDepartment of Neuroscience 1111 Highland Avenue Room 5505 WIMR-II Madison, WI 53705 USA Email: neuro-office@lists.wisc.edu Phone: 608.262.2938 Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: techsupport@hslc.wisc.edu. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | 2020 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.
