Quantum Matter profiles | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profilesResearcher Quantum Matter profiles Raffi Budakian Professor; University of Waterloo Endowed Chair in Nanotechnology Professor Budakian's work in the past decade has focused on developing the experimental tools for ultra sensitive detection of electron and nuclear spins. He explores the application of these tools to address fundamental questions ranging from biology to quantum information. Anton Burkov Professor Dr. Burkov is a theoretical condensed matter physicist, currently focusing on the effects of nontrivial electronic structure topology and electron-electron interactionson experimentally observable properties of quantum materials. Michel Gingras Professor and Canada Research Chair in Condensed Matter Physics & Statistical Mechanics ProfessorGingras main interests are in the field of theoretical condensed matter physics, with a focus on systems with random disorder. He is also interested in strongly correlated classical and quantum condensed matter systems subject to strongly competing, or frustrated, interactions. David Hawthorn Professor; Associate Chair, Graduate Studies The Quantum Materials Spectroscopy group, led by Dr. Hawthorn, studies Quantum Materials using resonant soft x-ray scattering and x-ray absorption spectroscopy at synchrotrons such as the Canadian Light Source. We use these tools to investigate intertwinned order in Quantum Materials and shed light on the long-standing mysteries of high temperature superconductors. Robert Hill Associate Professor; Teaching Fellow Dr. Hill's research is focused onthe experimental study of materials whose exotic properties are dominated by the collective quantum mechanical nature of their electrons and defy explanation using current theoretical paradigms. Jan Kycia Professor Dr. Kycia's group works on the experimental investigation of superconducting and quantum mechanical devices; in particular Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) and GaAs quantum dots (Spin Qubits).The experiments are runat ultra low temperatures (down to 0.004K). Roger Melko Professor; Canada Research Chair in Computational Many-Body Physics Dr. Melko's research interests involve strongly-correlated many-body systems, with a focus on emergent phenomena, ground state phases, phase transitions, quantum criticality, and entanglement. Heemphasizes computational methods as a theoretical technique, in particular the development of state-of-the-art algorithms for the study of strongly-interacting systems. Dmitry Pushin Assistant Professor Dmitry Pushinuses his broad background to apply quantum information processing methods to improve neutron interferometry, with the goal of making it accessible to the general scientific community as a resource for studying fundamental questions of physics, dark energy, phase transitions in condensed matter, magnetic materials in functional devices and materials science. Gunter Scholz Associate Professor Dr. Scholzuses electron microscopy to determine the compositional and crystallographic structure of compounds. His facility houses a Philips CM20Super Twin High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope, and he invitesresearchers to make use of this modern, high voltage equipment. Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (12)Quantum Information & Computing (16)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
