Jan Kycia | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Jan Kycia ProfessorDr. Kycia's group works on the experimental investigation of superconducting and quantum mechanical devices; in particular Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices (SQUIDs) and GaAs quantum dots (Spin Qubits).The experiments are runat ultra low temperatures (down to 0.004K). With theselow temperatures, the quantum aspects of devices can be isolated and sensors can have the lowest levels ofnoise. Thesedevices are used for quantum computingapplicationsas well asfor studying novel magnetic and superconducting materials. Contact information Office:PHY 373 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext.35177 Email:jkycia@uwaterloo.ca Website:science.uwaterloo.ca/~jkycia/ Expertise Disordered magnetic materials Geometric frustration Transition edge sensors Research Disordered Magnetic Materials Systems of interacting magnetic moments have long been used by physicists as a basis for studying and testing numerous models in statistical physics. Magnetic systems may often possess a well-defined Hamiltonian to use as a starting point for understanding the nonetheless very complex behaviour that may result. One of the most difficult of such models to study theoretically is the effect of disorder which may be caused by random interactions between spins or by a random dilution of the magnetic ions with non-magnetic species. In some instances, such disordered systems exhibit what is known as a "spin glass" phase. As the temperature of the system is lowered, the spin dynamics get progressively slower until one reaches a transition temperature where the spins are completely frozen in place, but still randomly oriented. This frozen disorder is analogous to the frozen structural disorder seen in real glasses, hence the name. Spin glass models can also be related to models of such diverse systems as neural networks, biological evolution and the internet! Geometric Frustration Geometric frustration arises in magnetic materials when there is no ground state which allows all the pairs of interactions to be satisfied simultaneously. This is most easily illustrated with spins occupying the corners of a triangle interacting with each other antiferromagnetically (preferring to be oppositely aligned). two of the spins may point in opposite directions from each other, thereby satisfying the antiferromagnetic interaction, but the third is then frustrated, unable to choose an ideal configuration. Geometric frustration can lead to a variety of very interesting magnetic properties. Often, a material's magnetic ordering temperature is greatly reduced or even completely suppressed by the frustration. Spin glasses (frozen disorder), spin liquids (dynamic spins) and spin ice (a magnetic analog of water-ice) are some of the more unusual states resulting from geometric frustration. Transition Edge Sensors A superconducting transition edge sensor (TES) can be used to make the most sensitive thermometer which operates in a very narrow temperature range (<5mK). A TES takes advantage of the very sharp transition from normal resistance to superconductivity. Within this transition a very small variation in temperature corresponds to a large change in resistance. When the sensor is thermally balanced at the transition temperature, it can be used to detect very small temperature fluctuations. In order to select an operating temperature, a TES is fabricated with a thin film of normal and superconducting metal. Due to the proximity effect, their relative thicknesses determines the critical temperature of the bi-metal. TES's have many advantages over other thermometers. For example, the TES's size is useful when working in low temperature physics where space is limited in dilution refrigerators and other cryogenic apparatus. TES's are highly sensitive to variations in temperature and energy, the TES's fabricated in our lab are able to measure changes in energies on the order of 10-19J, which is many orders of magnitude better than conventional techniques. High accuracy is important for sensitive measurements, as well as low noise. The TES's made in our group have a noise sensitivity of of less than 1nK/sqrt(Hz). A TES can be used anywhere a high energy sensitive sensor is required, it can be used as a calorimeter to measure a heat change or as a bolometer to detect power absorption. Teaching MNS 101, Materials and Nanosciences in the Modern World PHYS 112, Physics 2 PHYS352, Analogue Electronics PHYS353, Digital Electronics PHYS 358,Thermal Physics PHYS 359,Statistical Mechanics Highlighted Publications H. M. Revell, L. R. Yaraskavitch, J. D. Mason, K. A. Ross, H. M. L. Noad, H. A. Dabkowska, B. D. Gaulin, P. Henelius & J. B. Kycia Evidence of impurity and boundary effects on magnetic monopole dynamics in spin ice Nature Physics85,doi:10.1038/nphys2466(2012) D. Pomaranski, and J. B. Kycia Low Temperature Specific Heat Measurements of Frustrated Magnetic Materials Physics in Canada 68, No. 2: 99-102 (2012) L. R. Yaraskavitch, H. M. Revell, S. Meng, K. A. Ross, H. M. L. Noad, H. A. Dabkowska, B. D. Gaulin, and J. B. Kycia Spin dynamics in the frozen state of the dipolar spin ice material Dy2Ti2O7 Phys. Rev. B 85, Issue 18, 020410(R) (2012) J. A. Quilliam, S. Meng, C. G. A. Mugford, and J. B. Kycia Evidence of Spin Glass Dynamics in Dilute LiHoxY1-xF4 Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, Issue 18, 187204 (2008) Please see Google Scholarfor a complete list of Dr. Kycia'spublications. Awards and Distinctions 2007,Ontario Early Research Award forapplied superconducting devices 2001, Research Innovation Award for novelTransition Edge Sensor (TES) detector, the Research Corporation University of Waterloo Affiliations Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology Associate, Institute for Quantum Computing Degrees 1997: PhD, Physics, Northwestern University 1991:MSc, Physics University of Pennsylvania 1989:BSc, Physics, McGill University Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (12)Quantum Information & Computing (16)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
