Raymond Laflamme | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Raymond Laflamme Professor; Canada Research Chair in Quantum ComputingWould using quantum mechanics for information processing be an impediment or could it be an advantage? This is the fundamental question in the field of quantum information processing (QIP). QIP is a young field with an incredible potential impact reaching from the way we understand fundamental physics to technological applications. Information processing devices are pervasive in our society - from the 5 dollar watches to multi-billions satellite network - andhave allowed the information revolution which is developing around us. It has transformed not only the way we communicate or entertain ourselves, but also the way we do science and even the way we think. All this information is manipulated using the classical approximation to the laws of physics, but we know that there is a better approximation: the quantum mechanical laws. Contact information Office:RAC1 1111;QNC 3119 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext.32430 Email:laflamme@uwaterloo.ca Website:https://laflamme.iqc.uwaterloo.ca/ Expertise Quantum information theory and experiments Quantum error correction NMR quantum computing Quantum communication Quantum algorithms Optical quantum information processing Research In late 1994, after hearing of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm,Professor Laflammequickly realized that quantum computers would be hampered by the lossof quantum coherence (i.e. decoherence). In fact if decoherence is not taken care of, quantum computers lose their power. After the seminal work of Shor and Steane,Professor Laflamme and his colleagueManny Knilllaid down the mathematical foundation of quantum error correcting codes. With colleagues Miquel,Paz and Zurek, he has also discovered the most compact quantum error correcting code which corrects one quantum error. This quantum error correcting code has since been implemented using NMR, together withKnill, Negrevergne and Martinez. After having looked at error correcting codes,his attention turned to taking care of errors which would happen while we are trying to correct errors. This lead to the threshold accuracy theorem which says that it is possible to compute for as long as desired with given accuracy, with reasonable (polynomial) amount of overhead, as long as the error rate is below a threshold. It is an important discovery as it shows that imperfection and imprecision of realistic devices are not fundamental objections to quantum computing. A few years later, using the multi-disciplinary characteristic of Los Alamos National Laboratory, he learned how to use Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) and collaborated with NMR spectroscopists both at Los Alamos and MIT to to better understand quantum information in an experimental setting. The thread in Professor Laflamme's research has been to understand the limitations, both in theory and in experiments, on the control we have on quantum systems. Current research projects include Quantum information: Understanding the impact of manipulating information using the laws of quantum mechanics. Robust quantum control: Developing methods to protect quantum information against noise through quantum control and quantum error correction for quantum computing and quantum cryptography. Experimental quantum information processing: Implementing ideas and concepts of quantum information processing using nuclear magnetic resonance and developing scalable methods to control quantum systems. Quantum cryptography: Theoretical and experimental investigations focussed on using the laws of quantum mechancis to transmit secure information, in particular using satellite communication. Physical systems for quantum information processing: Developing blueprints for quantum information processors using various approaches such as linear optics quantum computing (LOQC). Simulation of quantum systems: Finding ways to simulate quantum systems using quantum information processors. Highlighted Publications Jochym-O'Connor T, Laflamme R.Using Concatenated Quantum Codes for Universal Fault-Tolerant Quantum Gates Physical Review Letters, Vol. 112, Issue 1, Article 010505, 2014. An Introduction to Quantum Computing Oxford University Press 2006 (with P. Kaye & M. Mosca). T. D. Ladd, F. Jelezko, R. Laflamme, Y. Nakamura, C. Monroe, and J. L. OBrien. Quantum computers. Nature, 464:4553, 2010. Knill E, Laflamme R, Milburn GJ. A scheme for efficient quantum computation with linear optics. Nature 409,46-52, 2001. Knill E, Laflamme R, Zurek WH. Resilient quantum computation. Science, 279:342345, 1998. Please see Google Scholar for a complete list of Professor Laflamme's publications. Awards and Distinctions 2002 - present:Canada Research Chair in Quantum Information 2017: Officer of the Order of Canada 2017:Canadian Association of Physicists CAP-CRM prize in Theoretical and Mathematical Physics. 2013:Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Medal 2012:Honorary Degree, Universit de Sherbrooke 2011:Fellow of the American Association for the Achievement of Science 2011:Fellow of the American Physical Society 2008:Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada Premiers Discovery award in Natural Science and Engineering 2006:NSERCs inaugural Top 50 Discoveries list University of Waterloo Affiliations Associate faculty, Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics Cross-appointed faculty, Department of Applied Mathematics Cross-appointed faculty, Cheriton School of Computer Science Affiliated Faculty, Centre for Applied Cryptographic Research Management committee, Cryptoworks21 Professional Associations and Service 2010 - present: CSO,Universal Quantum Devices 2003 - present: Program Director, Senior Fellow, Quantum Information; CIFAR Founding Director, Institute for Quantum Computing, University of Waterloo, April 2002-2017 Media The following news stories have featured Professor Laflamme's research: TEDx Waterloo talk April 20, 2016:Canadas spies closely watching quantum tech developments (the Star) February 9, 2016: Physicist Raymond Laflamme's Canada Research Chair renewed January 21, 2015:Canada leads in the race to create Quantum Valley (Globe and Mail) March 12, 2014:Waterloo researchers team on quantum-based security (IT World Canada) December 7, 2013:The quantum computing revolution: BlackBerry billionaire Mike Lazaridis is betting on tech that hasn't been invented yet (National Post) June 25, 2013:Institute for Quantum Computing (The Record) February 12, 2013: The quest for the quantum holy grail Degrees 1988 PhD, D.A.M.T.P., University of Cambridge 1984Part III of Math. Tripos, D.A.M.T.P., University of Cambridge 1983 BSc, Physics, Universite Laval Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (12)Quantum Information & Computing (16)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
