Kostadinka Bizheva | Physics and Astronomy | University of Waterloo Skip to main Skip to footer Visit our COVID-19 information website to learn how Warriors protect Warriors. University of Waterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Search Menu This site Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and AstronomyOur mission and vision Employment opportunities Our PeopleAdministrative staff Lab Instructors, Demonstrators, and Technicians Professors Research Associates Postdoctoral fellows MSc and PhD students ResearchAstrophysics & Gravitation Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics Quantum Computing & Information Quantum Matter Soft Matter Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Undergraduate studentsPrograms Co-op information Scholarships Academic advisors Physics 437 research projects Undergraduate Student Research Awards Get involved About to graduate Graduate studentsMSc Programs PhD Programs Funding and tuition How to apply Student InformationProgram Milestones TA information Course information Forms Contact Us Alumni and Friends UWaterloo Admissions About Waterloo Faculties & academics Offices & services Support Waterloo Physics and Astronomy Physics and Astronomy home About Physics and Astronomy Our People Research Degrees and programs News Events Community outreach Information for Undergraduate students Graduate students Alumni and Friends Physics and AstronomyPeople profiles Kostadinka Bizheva Professor; Graduate OfficerDr. Bizheva's research focuses on the development of novel optical imaging technology (Optical Coherence Tomography - OCT) that can be used in clinics to image various part of the human body for diagnostic purposes or for monitoring the outcome of drug therapy or surgery. Imaging with the OCT technology is non-contact, non-invasive and some of its medical applications include the diagnosis of potentially blinding diseases such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy or macular degeneration, screening for skin or oral cancer, or monitoring of surgical procedures such as retinal, corneal, heart and brain surgery. Compared to commercially available OCT systems, the OCT technology developed in Dr. Bizheva's lab provides ultrahigh resolution in biological tissue sufficient to observe its cellular structure and the smallest blood vessels. Dr. Bizheva's research group has extensive and successful collaborations with Canadian and international industrial partners, as well as clinical collaborators with multiple hospitals in the Greater Toronto Area. Contact information Office: PHY 247 Phone: 519 888-4567 ext. 37517 Email: kbizheva@uwaterloo.ca Expertise Biomedical optics Optical coherence tomography Tissue optics Optical spectroscopy Confocal and fluorescence microscopy Ultrafast optics Research Dr. Bizheva's primary research contributions include: a) technological development of ultrahigh resolution OCT (UHROCT) to allow for imaging of sub-cellular details in living biological tissue; b) novel biomedical applications of UHROCT, for example in ophthalmology and neuroscience; c) computer modeling of light interaction with biological cells; and d) image processing algorithms for UHROCT. In the past 5 years Dr. Bizheva has built a laboratory with a number of state-of-the-art UHROCT systems, established collaborations with research groups at UW and other Canadian universities and clinics, as well as many companies, manufacturing OCT systems or related equipment. Teaching ECE105, Physics of Electrical Engineering 1 PHYS396, Biophysics of Imaging Phys115, Mechanics PHYS122, Waves, Electricity and Magnetism PHYS111, Physics 1 Highlighted Publications Puvanathasan, P., Bizheva, K. Interval type-II fuzzy anisotropic diffusion algorithm for speckle noise reduction in optical coherence tomography images. Optics Express (2), volume 17, pp. 733-746. Puvanathasan, P., Forbes, P., Ren, Z., Malchow, D., Boyd, S., Bizheva, K. High-speed, high-resolution Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography system for retinal imaging in the 1060 nm wavelength region. Optics Letters (21),volume 33, pp 2479-2481. Puvanathasan, P., Bizheva, K. Speckle noise reduction algorithm for optical coherence tomography based on interval type II fuzzy set. Optics Express (24), volume 15, pp. 15747-15758. Resch, K.J., Puvanathasan, P., Lundeen, J.S., Mitchell, M.W., Bizheva, K. Optics Express (14), volume 15, pp. 8797-8804. Bizheva, K., Pflug, R., Hermann, B., Povazay, B., Sattmann, H., Anger, E., Reitsamer, H., Popov, S., Taylor, J.R., Unterhuber, A., Ahnelt, P., Drexler, W. PNAS(13), volume 103, pp. 5066-5071. Please see Google Scholar for a complete list of Professor Bizheva's publications Awards and Distinctions 2008-2010, University Faculty Award, NSERC 2005-2008, University Faculty Award, NSERC University of Waterloo Affiliations Cross Appointment to Optometry and Vision Sciences Centre for Bioengineering and Biotechnology Professional Associations and Service 2008-present Canadian Association of Physicists (CAP), Chair 2005-2007 Optical Society of America Student Chapter, President of Southwestern Ontario Waterloo-Wellington Annual Science Fair, Regular Judge Degrees 2001 PhD Physics/Biomedical Optics, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA 1997 MSc Physics/Biomedical Optics, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA 1993 BSc Solid State Physics and Electronics Engineering, Plovdiv University, Plovdiv, Bulgaria Affiliation:University of Waterloo Profiles by type Faculty (44)Researcher (44)Astrophysics & Gravitation (9)Biophysics (5)Photonics and Atomic, Molecular & Optical Physics (12)Quantum Information & Computing (16)Quantum Matter (9)Soft Matter (6)Teacher (37) TOP Share Department of Physics and Astronomy University of Waterloo 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1 Phone: (519) 888-4567 ext 32215 Fax: (519) 746-8115 Contact Physics and AstronomyEmployment OpportunitiesLog into Student Portal Affiliations Institute for Quantum ComputingPerimeterInstituteforTheoreticalPhysicsWaterloo Centre for AstrophysicsWaterloo Institute for Nanotechnnology University of Waterloo University of Waterloo 43.471468 -80.544205 200 University Avenue West Waterloo, ON, Canada N2L 3G1 +1 519 888 4567 Contact Waterloo Maps & Directions WatSAFE Accessibility Privacy Copyright Media Careers Feedback @uwaterloo social directory The University of Waterloo acknowledges that much of our work takes place on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishinaabeg and Haudenosaunee peoples. Our main campus is situated on the Haldimand Tract, the land promised to the Six Nations that includes six miles on each side of the Grand River. Our active work toward reconciliation takes place across our campuses through research, learning, teaching, and community building, and is centralized within our Indigenous Initiatives Office. Log in
