Lee Blaney - Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering - UMBC Skip to Main Content UMBCUMBC: An Honors University in Maryland myUMBC Events Directory Search UMBC Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering Home About Us Mission, Overview & History Contact Us Ordering & Work Requests Internal CBEE Dashboard Advisory Board Department Logo News & Events News Events Calendar People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Faculty Research Research Talks: GRIT-X Research Talks: TEDx Undergraduate Prospective Undergrads Student Ambassadors Testimonials ABET Accreditation B.S. in Chemical Engineering BS ENCH Curriculum Gateway Requirements & Policies Accelerated Program (BSMS) Undergraduate FAQ Student Orgs & myUMBC Graduate Graduate Program Overview Graduate Student Profiles Application Degree Programs PhD, Chemical and Biochemical Engineering (CENG) PhD, Environmental Engineering (ENEN) MS, Chemical and Biochemical Engineering (CENG) MS, Environmental Engineering (ENEN) Accelerated Program (BSMS) Certificate in Biochemical Regulatory Engineering Financial Support Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Resources Alumni Lee Blaney Title Associate Professor Associate Director of Sustainability Engineering Liaison to the University System of Maryland Vice Chancellor for Environmental Sustainability Contact Information Engineering, Room 318 blaney@umbc.edu 410-455-8608 Blaney Lab website Education B.S. Environmental Engineering Lehigh University, 2005 M.S. Environmental Engineering Lehigh University, 2007 Ph.D. Civil Engineering The University of Texas at Austin, 2011 ResearchInterests The occurrence, fate, transport, and toxicity of contaminants of emerging concern (CECs), such as pharmaceuticals, personal care products, and hormones, in natural and engineered systems; and, The recovery of vital resources, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, from municipal and agricultural waste streams to improve water quality and ensure sustainable development. Our research projects on contaminants of emerging concern relate to the following topics: Investigation of pharmaceuticals, personal care products, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, hormones, organometallic chemicals, and other CECs in the aquatic environment; Development of advanced analytical methods (e.g., liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FLD), fluorescence excitation-emission matrices (EEMs)) to measure CECs and characterize DOM in environmental samples; Pretreatment of environmental samples by solid-phase extraction (SPE) and quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe (QuEChERS) protocols; Environmental occurrence of CECs in water, soil, sediment, and tissue; Transformation of CECs in drinking water treatment, wastewater treatment, and water reuse; Degradation of CECs in photochemical, photocatalytic, and oxidation systems; and, Application of cell-based assays to measure antimicrobial, estrogenic, and other pharmacological activity of water samples containing CECs. Our research projects on resource recovery relate to the following topics: Development of innovative technologies to recover nutrients (e.g., phosphorus, nitrogen, and potassium) from animal manure, urine, and municipal wastewater; The Phosphorus Extraction and Recovery System (PEARS) Nutrient Extraction and Recovery Devices (NERDs) Application of Donnan dialysis for selective uptake, recovery, and treatment of inorganic chemicals; Investigation of natural coagulants for improved recovery of struvite-based fertilizers from waste streams; and, Construction of pilot-scale reactors to evaluate mass balance and economic viability of novel resource recovery technologies. Select Publications Google Scholar Hernandez-Maldonado, A.J.; Blaney, L. Contaminants of Emerging Concern (CECs) in Water and Wastewater: Advanced Treatment Processes. Butterworth-Heinemann (Oxford, UK), October 18, 2019. He, K.; Hain, E.; Timm, A.; Tarnowski, M.; Blaney, L. (2019). Antibiotics, estrogenic hormones, and UV-filters in water, sediment, and shellfish tissue along the Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay. Science of the Total Environment 650(2), 3101-3109. Mitchelmore, C.*; He, K.*; Gonsior, M.; Hain, E.; Heyes, A.; Clark, C.; Younger, R.; Schmitt-Kopplin, P.; Feerick, A.; Blaney, L. (2019). Occurrence and distribution of organic UV-filters in coastal surface waters, sediments, and coral tissue in Hawaii. Science of the Total Environment 670, 398-410 (* co-first authors). Chen, P.*; Blaney, L.*; Cagnetta, G.; Huang, J.; Wang, B.; Wang, Y.; Deng, S.; Yu, G. (2019). Degradation of ofloxacin by perylene diimide supramolecular nanofiber sunlight-driven photocatalysis. Environmental Science & Technology 53(3), 1564-1575 (* co-first authors). Blaney, L.; Katz, L.E.; Lawler, D.F. (2019). Transformation kinetics of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide by ozone and hydroxyl radicals using continuous oxidant addition reactors. Journal of Hazardous Materials 364, 752-761. Chen, S.; Blaney, L.; Chen, P.; Deng, S.; Hopanna, M.; Bao, Y.; Yu, G. (2019). Ozonation of the 5-fluorouracil anticancer drug and its prodrug capecitabine: Reaction kinetics, oxidation mechanisms, and residual toxicity. Frontiers of Environmental Science and Engineering 13(4), 59-. Zhang, Y.; Duan, L.; Wang, B.; Du, Y.; Cagnetta, G.; Huang, J.; Blaney, L.; Yu, G. (2019). Wastewater-based epidemiology in Beijing, China: Prevalence of antibiotic use in flu season and association of pharmaceuticals and personal care products with socioeconomic characteristics. Environment International 125, 152-160. Zhong, M.; Wang, T.; Qi, C.; Peng, G.; Lu, M.; Huang, J.; Blaney, L.; Yu, G. (2019). Automated on-line solid- phase extraction- liquid chromatography -tandem mass spectrometry investigation for simultaneous quantification of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, pharmaceuticals and personal care products, and organophosphorus flame retardants in environmental waters. Journal of Chromatography A, 1602, 350-358. Jepsen, R.; He, K.; Blaney, L.; Swan, C. (2019). Effects of antimicrobial exposure on detrital biofilm metabolism in urban and rural stream environments. Science of the Total Environment 666, 1151-1160. Adak, A.; Das, I.; Mondal, B.; Koner, S.K.; Datta, P.; Blaney, L. (2019). Degradation of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid by UV 253.7 and UV-H2O2: Reaction kinetics and effects of interfering substances. Emerging Contaminants 5, 53-60. Wu, J.; Wang, B.; Blaney, L.; Peng, G.; Chen, P.; Cui, Y.; Deng, S.; Wang, Y.; Huang, J.; Yu, G. (2019). Degradation of sulfamethazine by persulfate activated with organo-montmorillonite supported nano-zero valent iron. Chemical Engineering Journal 361, 99-108. Barbosa, M.O.; Ribeiro, A.R.; Ratola, N.; Hain, E.; Homem, V.; Pereira, M.F.R.; Blaney, L.; Silva, A.M.T. Spatial and seasonal occurrence of micropollutants in four Portuguese rivers and a case study for fluorescence excitation-emission matrices. Science of the Total Environment 644, 1128-1140. Shashvatt, U.; Benoit, J.; Aris, H.; Blaney, L.CO2-assisted phosphorus extraction from poultry litter and selective recovery of struvite and potassium struvite. Water Research143, 19-27. Fu, Q.-L.; Blaney, L.; Zhou, D.-Z. (2018). Identifying plant stress responses to roxarsone in soybean root exudates: New insights from two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy. Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry66(1), 53-62. Blaney, L.; Perlinger, J.A.; Bartelt-Hunt, S.L.; Kandiah, R.; Ducoste, J.J. (2018). Another Grand Challenge Diversity in Environmental Engineering. Environmental Engineering Science35(6), 568-572. Home About Us Mission, Overview & History Contact Us Ordering & Work Requests Internal CBEE Dashboard Advisory Board Department Logo News & Events News Events Calendar People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Research Faculty Research Research Talks: GRIT-X Research Talks: TEDx Undergraduate Prospective Undergrads Student Ambassadors Testimonials ABET Accreditation B.S. in Chemical Engineering BS ENCH Curriculum Gateway Requirements & Policies Accelerated Program (BSMS) Undergraduate FAQ Student Orgs & myUMBC Graduate Graduate Program Overview Graduate Student Profiles Application Degree Programs PhD, Chemical and Biochemical Engineering (CENG) PhD, Environmental Engineering (ENEN) MS, Chemical and Biochemical Engineering (CENG) MS, Environmental Engineering (ENEN) Accelerated Program (BSMS) Certificate in Biochemical Regulatory Engineering Financial Support Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Resources Alumni Chemical, Biochemical and Environmental Engineering Engineering Building,Room 314 phone & text: 410-455-3400 twitter: @UMBC_CBEE email: cbee@umbc.edu About UMBC Contact Us Equal Opportunity Consumer Information Accessibility University of Maryland, Baltimore County 1000 Hilltop Circle Baltimore, MD 21250
