Research & Publications, Chemistry | American University, Washington, DC Skip to main content Show Menu Search Search Website: Go Find People: Go Browse Departments & Services Log in myAU Portal Student GMail Canvas Blackboard Admissions Admissions Home Apply Undergraduate Graduate Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Academics Home Degrees Registration Schedule of Classes Study Abroad Summer Programs Online Programs Honors & Learning Communities Schools & Colleges College of Arts & Sciences Kogod School of Business School of Communication School of Education School of International Service School of Professional & Extended Studies School of Public Affairs Washington College of Law Life at AU University Life Home Athletics Housing Dining & Retail New Students Career Services Student Organizations AU Arts Library Calendars Alumni Give to AU Research About Show navigation Research & Publications, Chemistry You are here: American University College of Arts & Sciences Chemistry Research & Publications Chemistry Home Graduate MS Chemistry MS Requirements Certificate: Clinical Biochemistry Undergraduate BS Chemistry BS Biochemistry BS/MS Program Minor Chemistry Minor Biochemistry Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Research Facilities Contact Us 202-885-1750 Fax: 202-885-1752 afarran@american.edu Contact:Farran, Arij B. Senior Administrative Assistant Beeghly, Room 104 Chemistry 4400 Massachusetts Avenue NW Washington, DC 20016-8014 United States Back to top Faculty Research Overviews Stefano Costanzi Douglas Fox Matthew Hartings Monika Konaklieva Alexander Zestos Shouzhong Zou Stefano Costanzi Research Website | Google Scholar Dr. Costanzis current scholarly work is based on two main research lines. The first one focuses on the application of computational chemistry to the study of the interactions between chemicals and living organisms. The second one focuses on the analysis of gaps in current policies and practices that allow chemical weapons proliferation and the conceptualization of ways to narrow them. Selected Publications Influence of the Structural Accuracy of Homology Models on Their Applicability to Docking-Based Virtual Screening: The Adrenergic Receptor as a Case Study Controlling Novichoks After Salisbury: Revising the Chemical Weapons Convention Schedules Nerve Agents: What They Are, How They Work, How to Counter Them Douglas Fox Research Website Dr. Fox develops commercial and industrial products using sustainable materials. Our lab currently investigates new flame retardants, coatings, fiber reinforced plastics, and the health and safety (EHS) of nanomaterials. Selected Publications Binary Cellulose Nanocrystal Blends for Bioinspired Damage Tolerant Photonic Films Current characterization methods for cellulose nanomaterials Simultaneously Tailoring Surface Energies and Thermal Stabilities of Cellulose Nanocrystals Using Ion Exchange: Effects on Polymer Composites Properties for Transportation, Infrastructure, and Renewable Energy Applications Matthew Hartings Research Website|Google Scholar Dr. Hartings has two main laboratory research projects: 1) The use of 3D printing to create chemically reactive objects and 2) The development of novel environmental and biological sensors based off of stimulus-responsive materials. Dr. Hartings is also active in studying and communicating about all of the wonderful chemistry we do at home in our kitchens while we cook. Selected Publications SELECTED PUBLICATIONS Chemistry from 3D printed objects A photonic sensor based on photothermal spectroscopy Chemistry in Your Kitchen Monika Konaklieva Dr. Konaklievas main research interest is in the area of using organic synthesis and evaluation towards the generation of new antibacterial, antiviral agents and lipoprotein metabolism modulators. Within this research, the group aims to develop efficient and environmentally friendly synthetic approaches for their preparation. Interdisciplinary projects are a main focus in the Konaklievas group, involving organic synthesis/medicinal chemistry, biochemistry, and structure-based drug design. Selected Publications C4-Phenylthio -lactams: Effect of the chirality of the -lactam ring on antimicrobial activity Addressing Antimicrobial Resistance through New Medicinal and Synthetic Chemistry Strategies Lecithin:Cholesterol Acyltransferase Activation by Sulfhydryl-Reactive Small Molecules: Role of Cysteine-31 Alexander Zestos Google Scholar Dr. Zestos is a bioanalytical chemist who utilizes electrochemistry and chromatographic methods for bioanalysis. Research from his group focuses on the measuring rapid neurochemical changes of dopamine, serotonin, and other neurotransmitters. His work has vast implications for studying drugs of abuse, obesity, diabetes, depression, and many other diseases and behavioral states. Selected Publications An immune-beige adipocyte communication via nicotinic acetylcholine receptor signaling "Direct and systemic application of a CNS-permeant tamoxifen analog reduces amphetamine-induced dopamine release and reinforcing effects." Polyethyleneimine Carbon Nanotube Fiber Microelectrodes For Enhanced Neurotransmitter Detection. Shouzhong Zou Google Scholar Dr. Zou develops catalysts for hydrogen fuel cells and conversion of carbon dioxide to organic fuels using sustainable materials. Selected Publications Cobalt and nitrogen-codoped ordered mesoporous carbon as highly efficient bifunctional catalysts for oxygen reduction and hydrogen evolution reactions PtNi nanoparticles encapsulated in few carbon layers as high-performance catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction High Indexed Pt3Ni Tetrahexahedral Nanoframes Evolved through Preferential CO Etching Research News & Notes Recent Grants Douglas Fox received $36,519 of additional funding from the US Endowment for Forestry & Communities, Inc. for his project titled "14C Labeled Cellulose Nanofibrils for EHS Studies. The new total award for this project is $89,377. Hanning Chen was awarded $35,000 from George Washington University for his project, entitled: Collaborative Research: Integrated Experimental and Computational Studies for Understanding the Interplay of Photoreactive Materials and Persistent Contaminants. Hanning Chen was awarded $18,000 from his prime funder, George Washington University, for his project, entitled: Development of Graphitic-Carbon-Nitride-Based Antimicrobial Nanomaterials for Safe Food Processing and Packaging. Hanning Chen was awarded $11,250, as an incremental fund, from Utah State University, prime funder Honda Research Institute USA, Inc., for his project, named: Systematic Exploration of MEG Materials for Solar Energy Conversion. He is expecting a total funding of $45,000. Hanning Chen received a grant for $18,000 from US Department of Agriculture for a project titled "Development of Graphitic-Carbon-Nitride-Based Antimicrobial Nanomaterials for Safe Food Processing and Packaging." Hanning Chen received a grant for $35,000 from the National Science Foundation for his project "SusChem: Collaborative Research: Integrated Experimental and Computational Studies for Understanding the Interplay of Photoreactive Materials and Persistent Contaminants." Alexander G. Zestos received a $24,841 grant award from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for his work on the Mechanisms of Amphetamine Abuse. Alexander Zestos received a grant for $84,938 from Microprobes for Life Science Inc. (prime Sponsor NIH) for his work on "Multielectrode Arrays for Neurotransmitter Detection with Fast Scan Cyclic Voltammetry. Alexander Zestosreceived a Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grant award from the National Institutes of Health (NINDS/NIMH) for his work on multielectrode arrays for neurotransmitter detection for $144,992. Zestos receiveda Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant from the National Institute of Health, which will support his collaboration with a local company, Microprobes. Zestos receiveda grant for $50,000 from the National Science Founation (NSF) for his research"I-Corps: Multielectrode Array Biosensor Development. Matthew Hartingsreceiveda grant for$17,020 from theParker Hannifin Corporation for the work on hisproject regardingNitro Cold Brew. Douglas Foxwas awarded a $149,900 grant from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for his Tailoring Cellulose Nanomaterial Surface Properties for Improved Polymer Stress Transfer." Foxreceived $4,505, and is expected to receive additional funding of $23,191, from FiberLean Technologies for his research titled "Nanocellulose Labeling to Track Migration from Paper." Foxreceiveda grant for$6,176 from FiberLean Technologiesfor the project "NanocelluloseMigration from Food Coating." Science September 17 Researchers Discover Biochemical Pathway That Spurs Beige Fat Cells to Burn Energy Read More 4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20016 (202) 885-1000 Contact Us Visit AU Work at AU Copyright 2020 American University. Emergency Preparedness Policies Privacy Disclosure EEO Facebook Twitter Youtube LinkedIn Instagram AU Blogs Homepage
