Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile John T. T. Watson Director/Professor, Bioengineering An Institute for the Global Entrepreneurfounding director;artificial hearts;team builder in medical progress;National Academy of Engineering member A mechanical engineer, physiologist, and former director of clinical and molecular medicine, Professor Watson's mission is finding ways to reduce how long it takes medical technology to move from concept into the clinic. Treatments such as medical implants ranging from dental crowns to artificial knees, hips, and heart valves now are commonplace. Given the benefits, Watson believes it takes too long - 25 years on average - for new implants to move from proof of concept to clinical acceptance. He proposes a coordinated approach to answer clinical, regulatory and payment questions simultaneously. He spent 28 years at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and helped initiate the federal small business innovation research program, and new study sections that put bioengineering and other applied interventions on equal footing in the competition for federal grants. At NIH, Watson's progressive style and a penchant for bringing problem-solvers together was refreshing in an arena where regulatory and administrative hurdles often are as difficult for promising technology as scientific challenges. He was inducted into the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) in 1998, becoming the first member so recognized from the NIH. The diagnosis and treatment of heart failure remains his main clinical research area. He is recognized for the conception, design, development, and clinical trial of left ventricular assist devices and the artificial heart, and for contributing to the federal regulatory and payment decision-making process. Among his honors: He was an invited member of the Nominating Committee for the Nobel Prize, the Japanese Kyoto Prize, and the NAE Draper Prize. Capsule Bio:Before coming fulltime to UCSD in December 2003, John T. Watson was NIH's Director of Clinical and Molecular Medicine of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. He oversaw 60 major clinical trials involving thousands of patients and contributed to advances in cardiovascular imaging, biomaterials, mechanical circulatory support devices, genomics and proteomics, tissue engineering and regeneration, computational biology and informatics, and randomized clinical trials. He received a Ph.D. in physiology from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in 1972. Email:jtwatson@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-2788WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Institute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
