Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Sandrine M. Javorschi-Miller Exec Dir/Pro Of Practice, Bioengineering Professor of practice, molecular biology, microbiome discovery Dr. Sandrine Miller-Montgomery is the Executive Director of the Center for Microbiome Innovation, led by Professor Rob Knight at UC San Diego, and serves as a Professor of Practice in the Department of Bioengineering. In this position, she is leading a team focused on fostering and expanding industry and academic collaborations, with the mission of accelerating Microbiome discovery and creating innovative technologies that will support this emerging but exploding field in the consumer world as well as enabling major clinical breakthroughs. Capsule Bio: Dr. Miller-Montgomery was previously the CEO of MO BIO Laboratories, a QIAGEN Company, focusing on nucleic acid purification solutions for challenging samples, such as ones found in Microbiome studies. Prior to heading the MO BIO site, she was their Director of Sales and Marketing, where she led a team, which consistently grew the business at a rate far superior to the market rate. She assisted the two original founders and private owners of the company to sell the company when they decided to retire, resulting into its acquisition by QIAGEN, the market leader in Nucleic Acid Sample Preparation. She has held Global Marketing Manager positions at large companies such as Abbott Laboratories or Illumina (following the acquisition of Helixis, a startup which she had joined in 2008, as lucky employee 13, to help with the commercialization of their innovative qPCR platform and their exit strategy). Before Helixis, Dr. Miller-Montgomery had worked for many years at Invitrogen, now part of Thermo Fisher, where she started as a bench scientist, moved up as the R&D Manager, then became one of their first Program Managers and ultimately migrated to the business side as Product Manager for both qPCR reagents and Reverse Transcriptase portfolio. Dr. Miller-Montgomery came to the USA from France in 2000 to join Genset in their R&D department, focusing on the identification of Obesity and Diabetes cure candidates. She received both her Pharm.D and her Ph.D. in Life Science from the University of Bordeaux (France), with emphasis on molecular biology, biology of aging and thrombosis and hemostasis. She has now a solid experience in leading and managing projects in the Life Science Industry in Start-up and large companies involving reagents, large or small instrumentation as well as software. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email: Office Phone: - - Website Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
