Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Bruce C. Wheeler Adjt Professor, Bioengineering Brain-on-a-chip, micropatterning neurons and microelectrode arrays, neural signal processing. Bioengineering Education. Prof. Wheeler is particularly interested in the future of our young biomedical engineers. To this end he is heavily involved in UCSDs's new undergraduate Bioengineering Systems major, teaching and developing courses in instrumentation, signal processing and design. In his work with the UCSD Bioengineering: Systems UG major he emphasizes classical systems engineering but is cognizant that this education needs to take place in a context of genomics/informatics and the wearable/sensor/physiologic revolutions, both of which are changing the practice of medicine. Capsule Bio: Before moving to UCSD he has championed within the IEEE Engineering and Medical Bioengineering Society the growing emphasis on Biomedical and Health Informatics, a field which offers rapidly expanding job opportunities for biomedical engineers due to its huge practical impacts on health care effectiveness and cost, in addition to exploiting the genomics revolution. He is bringing into his classes an awareness of the tremendous impact that the wearable/sensor/wireless device explosion is having on biomedical engineering practice. For new students, Prof. Wheeler strongly recommends his MOOC "So you want to be a biomedical engineer" which is available for free at https://www.edx.org/course/so-you-want-become-biomedical-engineer-ieeex-biomed01x-0. This course was created by the IEEE EMBS with substantial help from D2 Creative (Somerset NJ). [Prof. Wheeler is particularly indebted to Laura Vitez who helped craft a more meaningful message to young bioengineers.] This course is available for free. Before joining UC San Diego, Dr. Wheeler was a professor and Acting Department Chair at the University of Florida, co-authoring Florida's new BME BS degree program proposal. Previously he had been on faculty at the University of Illinois where he was the Founding Head of the Bioengineering Department, authored the proposals and shepherded to completion the programs for the BS, MS and PhD. He also served as ECE Associate Head for Undergraduate Education and Chair of the Neuroscience Program. He earned his Ph.D. and Master's from Cornell and his Bachelor's from MIT. He is a Fellow of the AAAS, IEEE, BMES, AIMBE and IAMBE. He was President of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society in 2012-2013 and Editor of its flagship journal the IEEE Transactions on Bomedical Engineering. He adds that IEEE TBME is the world's most influential general BME journal and that IEEE EMBS is the world's oldest, largest, and most global biomedical engineering. Also, EMBS is most closely aligned with the engineering, clinical and industrial expansion into health care. Prof. Wheeler came through the research ranks with his interest in the application of electrical engineering methodologies to neuroscience. His work and laboratory influenced the development of neural spike sorting technologies, demonstrated that micro electrode array technology was useful for brain slice recording, and developed multiple micro lithographic techniques for controlling cell growth in culture, especially of neurons. This work aims at basic science understanding of the behavior of small populations of neurons, in hopes of creating better insight into the functioning of the brain. More recent work, in collaboration with GJ Brewer of UC Irvine and T DeMarse of the University of North Carolina has involved very novel reconstructions in vitro of the hippocampus from which we are gaining new insights into how this structure, critical to memory, encodes information. Selected Publications: Google Publications Email:bcwheeler@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-6458Website Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
