Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Lanping Amy Sung Professor Emeritus, Bioengineering Molecular basis of erythrocyte cell membrane mechanics. Professor Sung focuses on the genomic organization and gene expression of proteins in cellular membrane skeletal structures. Sung uses gene-targeting techniques to identify the functions of individual genes, including in vitro experiments using knockout mouse embryos made with embryonic stem cells. In knockout embryos, genes are deactivated, helping to document the role of specific proteins. Sung is an expert in the proteins that make up the skeletal structure of erythrocytes or red blood cells, including the enzyme transglutaminase and the closely related "pseudo enzyme" Protein 4.2. These seem to trigger alterations in the skeletal structure, perhaps explaining why erythrocytes have a limited life span (an average 120 days in humans). Sung has also delved into the workings of erythrocyte-tropomodulin (E-Tmod), tropomyosin, and actin, three proteins that secure the primary spectrin strands of the skeletal network. Actin provides the glue, but E-Tmod and tropomyosin function as molecular "rulers," enabling the skeletal network to achieve its characteristic hexagonal shape, and also to enlist cellular movement to prune the meshlike network, keeping it trim and springy. Sung is now researching similar meshes in other tissues that, like red blood cells, regularly change shape. Among these are cardio-myocytes, or heart muscles. Sung's research is relevant to the disease phenotypes that result when genes used to build these flexible meshes are lacking or overexpressed. Her research has implications for blood and cardiovascular diseases. Capsule Bio: Lanping Amy Sung is principal researcher of the Center for Molecular Genetics, and the Molecular Bioengineering Laboratory. She came to UCSD in 1988 as an associate research bioengineer and lecturer in the Department of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Sciences-Bioengineering. She received her Ph.D. in human genetics and development at Columbia University. Selected Publications: Sung, L.A., Gao, K.-M., Yee, L.J., Temm-Grove, C.J., Helfman, D.M., Lin, J. -J. C., and Mehrpouryan, M.: Tropomyosin isoform 5b is expressed in human erythrocytes: Implications of tropomodulinTM5 or tropomodulin-TM5b complexes in the protofilament and hexagonal organization of membrane skeletons. Blood 95:1473-1480, 2000. Sung, L.A. and Vera, C.: Protofilament and Hexagon: A 3-D mechanical model for the junctional complex in the erythrocyte membrane skeleton. Ann. Biomed. Eng. 31:1314- 1326, 2003. Chu, X., Chen, J., Reedy, M, Vera, C., Sung, K.L.P., and Sung, L.A.: E-Tmod capping of actin filaments at the slow growing end is required to establish mouse embryonic circulation. Am. J. Physiol. Heart Circ. Physiol. 284:H1827-H1838, 2003. Yao, W., and Sung, L.A. Erythrocyte tropomodulin isoforms with and without the N-terminal actinbinding domain. J. Biol. Chem. 285:31408-31414, 2010 Sche, P., Vera, C., and Sung, L.A. Intertwined Spectrin meeting helical actin protofilament in the erythrocyte membrane skeleton: Wrap-around vs. point-attachment. Ann. Biomed. Eng. 39:1984-1993, 2011 Peng, W., and Sung, L.A. RGD-containing ankyrin externalized onto the cell surface triggers V3 integrin-mediated erythrophagocytosis. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 407:466-471, 2011. Email:lasung@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0005WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Institute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
