Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile James C. Perry Professor, Bioengineering Pediatric cardiology; adult congenital heart problems; electrophysiology Dr. Perry studies single ventricle mechanics, an increased focus on right ventricular models, electroanatomic model manipulation, integration of solid and fluid mechanics in congenital heart defects, and an integration of myocardial genomics in congenital heart defect patients Capsule Bio:Dr. James C. Perry is Professor of Pediatrics at UCSD and the Director of Electrophysiology and Adult Congenital Heart Programs at Rady Childrens Hospital San Diego. His educational background includes Princeton University, the University of Rochester School of Medicine, Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia pediatric residency and Texas Childrens Hospital for pediatric cardiology fellowship. He is past Director of Pediatric Cardiology at Rady Childrens and former Chief of Pediatric Cardiology at Yale University School of Medicine. He is active in clinical and translational research projects on antiarrhythmic drugs, genomics and channelopathies, catheter ablation, adult congenital heart arrhythmias, innovative device designs and program development, with 90 peer-reviewed publications to date. Dr. Perry is Past President of the international Pediatric and Adult Electrophysiology Society. He is active in teaching in the Department of Pediatrics, a reviewer for many journals related to electrophysiology and serves as a medical expert for the U.S. Department of Justice. In the past several years he has helped initiate translational projects related to congenital heart disease with colleagues in the UCSD Departments of Bioengineering and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. These efforts have resulted in a successful R01 application for computational modeling of congenital heart defects and a number of publications, abstracts and presentations by members of the group. Dr. Perry is also part of the UCSD/Rady team that provides pediatric cardiac services to the Hawaii Pacific Health group, based at Kapiolani Women and Childrens Medical Center in Honolulu. Email:j3perry@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-966-5855 Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
