Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Ester J. Kwon Asst Professor, Bioengineering Nanotechnology, Central Nervous System, Bioinspired Materials, Peptides, Drug Delivery The Kwon group engineers bioinspired materials to study, detect, and treat disorders that affect the brain. Using an interdisciplinary approach, the goal of the lab is to learn how to interact with the brain in pathological states and transfer these properties to materials that are responsive to disease. In particular, we are interested in engineering molecular interactions that occur on the nanometer length scale. These nanomaterials offer advantages in material properties; they can interact with biological systems in unique ways (e.g. high avidity multivalent binding, interaction with immune cells) and have emergent physical properties (e.g. quantum confinement, superparamagnetism, plasmonics). Harnessing these two special facets of nanomaterials, the lab is dedicated to make impacts on human health. An area of research in the lab includes identifying and interacting with molecular signatures specific to brain pathologies that can be accessed from the blood stream. These principles can then be applied to: (i) engineering sensors that can respond to enzymatic signals that occur in the brain after injury and (ii) designing therapies that can protect and regenerate brain tissue. To solve these challenging problems, the lab combines expertise from nanotechnology, materials science, computational modeling, and neuroscience. Capsule Bio: Kwon joined the Department of Bioengineering at the UC San Diego Jacobs School of Engineering in 2017. She earned her B.S. in Bioengineering and B.A. in Molecular & Cell Biology at UC Berkeley. She went on to pursue a Ph.D. at the University of Washington in Bioengineering with Prof. Suzie H. Pun, where she engineered polymeric nanomaterials for delivery of plasmid DNA into the brain funded by a pre-doctoral NIH Research Service Award. She continued her training of studying nanomaterials in animal models of disease as a postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory of Prof. Sangeeta N. Bhatia at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. There, funded by a post-doctoral NIH Research Service Award, she engineered several nanomaterial scaffolds for application to cancer, bacterial infections, and traumatic brain injury. Kwon is passionate about creating an inclusive research community through the life-long support and mentorship of trainees. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Email:e9kwon@ucsd.edu Office Phone: - - Lab Website Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
