Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Gabriel A. Silva Professor, Bioengineering Bioengineering and neuroengineering applications of retinal physiology, visual neuroscience, and ophthalmology, including the interface between cells and micro/nanotechnologies. Professor Silva's research interests are in neuroscience and neural computing and engineering. He studies the neurobiology of neural signaling at cellular and cellular network scales in order to learn about themechanisms that underlie neural computation and information processing in the brain. He achieves this by integrating advanced mathematics with experimental neurobiology. Silvas ultimate goals are twofold: the first is to abstract away the underlying biology of the brain in order to develop mathematical models and algorithms that capture key elements of neural processing, with the objective to leverage such algorithms forengineering advanced systems that emulate the computational properties of the brain. The second is to understand howcanonical neurophysiological processes result in the unique emergent properties associated with neural computation; in effect, understanding what makes the human brain unique from a computationalperspective. This work is of relevance for understanding neurological disorders associated with dysfunctions of networksignaling and information processing, such as neural developmental disorders. A related pursuit is the development of neural engineering nanotechnologies aimed at the restorationof neurological function. Capsule Bio:Gabriel Silva became an associate professor of bioengineering at UCSD's Jacobs School of Engineering in 2003. He also holds a joint appointment as an assistant professor in ophthalmology. Silva received his Ph.D. in bioengineering and ophthalmology, from the University of Illinois at Chicago in 2001. Most recently he was a postdoctoral fellow at Northwestern University's Institute for Bioengineering and Nanoscience in Advanced Medicine. Silva is a member of the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology and the Society for Neuroscience. Email:gsilva@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-4591WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Institute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
