Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Geert W. Schmid-Schnbein Professor, Bioengineering Molecular and cellular biomechanics, mechanotransduction and microcirculation. Development of the Autodigestion Theory. Design of new tools for prevention and treatment of sepsis with multiorgan failure, metabolic syndrome and autism. Professor Schmid-Schoenbein directs the UCSD Microcirculation Laboratory Center for Autodigestion Research. His team studies a mechanism for disease and death due to digestive enzymes, which they designated as autodigestion". The team designs new instrumentation to detect digestive enzymes, monitors their transport and activity, and develops new approaches to reduce their destructive actions. Capsule Bio:Schmid-Schoenbein was born in 1948 in Baden Wurttemberg, Germany, became a U.S. citizen, and received a Ph.D. in bioengineering from UCSD in 1976. After a post-doctoral fellowship at Columbia University, Schmid-Schoenbein returned to UCSD in 1979 as an assistant professor. He developed and confirmed a detailed engineering analysis to understand blood flow in the microcirculation. His research uncovered the mechanotransduction response of white blood cells under fluid shear stress. He discovered the second valve system in lymphatics that is required for lymph fluid from the tissue. Later, he concluded that the survival of an acutely ill patient can hinge on the degree to which white blood cells are activated. His group discovered a mechanism that leads to cell and organ failure, which is due to digestive enzymes and may cause disease and death. Among his many distinctions, Schmid-Schnbein is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and a fellow of the American Heart Association. He is a founding fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering, and winner of the Melville Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineering, the Poiseuille Gold Medal by the International Society for Biorheology, and Eugene M. Landis Award by The Microcirculatory Society. Email:gschmid@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-3852WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Institute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
