Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Marcos Intaglietta Professor, Bioengineering Development of effective blood substitutes based on a deep understanding of the microcirculation. Applications to transfusion and emergency medicine, cancer, ischemia, and the heart-lung machine. Professor Intaglietta has largely influenced present understanding of the effects of viscosity and colloid osmotic pressure on the local regulation of blood flow and oxygen transport at the level of microscopic blood vessels. He is the author or co-author of more than 200 scientific papers and books and pioneered instruments currently in use in laboratories worldwide for studying the microcirculation. His fundamental discovery that oxygen is delivered in small pulses to the microcirculation has provided important information towards creating effective blood substitutes. Previously, substitutes actually caused blood vessels to constrict and shut down because the substitutes delivered too much oxygen. Intaglietta has also collaborated for many years with international colleagues in Europe, Latin America and Asia on projects related to blood plasma expanders for use in emergency situations and for companies with low blood bank supplies. Capsule Bio:Marcos Intaglietta joined UCSD in 1966 as a founding bioengineering faculty member. His pioneering work on artificial blood substitutes with Robert Winslow is now being developed through Sangart, a San Diego based company. He is the Chair of Sangart's Scientific Advisory Board, and serves on the company's board of directors. Intaglietta received his Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the California Institute of Technology in 1963. He founded the International Institute for Microcirculation, and is an honorary member of the Italian, French, Indian, and Mexican societies for microcirculation. Intaglietta received the Malpighi Gold Medal Award from the European Society for Microcirculation (1994), the Whitaker Award (1996) and the International Award (2002) from the Biomedical Engineering Society, and the Landis Award (1999) from the Microcirculation Society. Email:mintaglietta@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-4275WebsiteLab WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Institute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
