Members of the National Academies | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Members of the National Academies Lewis BranscombProfessor Emeritus School of International Relations and Pacific Studies, UCSD Elected in 1974 for leadership in advancing national and international science and technology. *also a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the Institute of Medicine. Andrew ViterbiCo-founder of Linkabit and Qualcomm. Dr. Viterbi taught electrical engineering at UCSD. Elected in 1978 for contributions to communication and coding. Y.C. FungRest in Peace.Online obituaryProfessor Emeritus Bioengineering Elected in 1979 for contributions to the theory of elasticity and aeroelasticity, and applications to bioengineering.*Elected to Institute of Medicine, 1991 *Elected to National Academy of Sciences, 1992 Victor RumseyProfessor Emeritus Electrical & Computer Engineering Elected in 1980 for research in practical applications of electromagnetic theory, especially in design of radio antennas insensitive to frequency and polarization. Irwin JacobsCo-founder of Linkabit and Qualcomm. Dr. Jacobs served as a founding UCSD faculty member where he helped build programs in electrical and computer engineering. Elected in 1982 for contributions to communication theory and practice, and leadership in high-technology product development. Robert ConnProfessor Emeritus Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 1987 for major pioneering contributions in the fields of fusion engineering, fusion plasma analysis, and fusion reactor design. James LemkeAdjunct Professor Electrical & Computer Engineering Elected in 1988 for lifelong leadership in magnetic recording theory and practice, including both engineering design and materials science. Forman WilliamsProfessor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 1988 for contributions to the advancement of combustion and flame theory. Larry SmarrProfessor Computer Science & Engineering Elected in 1995 for leadership in high-performance computing and communications. Shu ChienProfessor *Bioengineering Elected in 1997 for research in blood rheology, microcirculation, cell mechanics, atherogenesis, and tissue engineering.*Elected to Institute of Medicine, 1994 *Elected to National Academy of Sciences, 2005 John WatsonProfessor Bioengineering Elected in 1998 for enabling human mechanical artificial heart research and developing the related NIH program, including industrial implementation. Sungho JinProfessor Emeritus, Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 1999 for research on new magnetic materials and high-temperature superconductors. Paul LibbyProfessor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 1999 for contributions as a researcher, author, and educator who advanced knowledge of fluid dynamics, turbulence, and combustion through theoretical analyses. Frieder SeibleProfessor Emeritus Structural Engineering Elected in 1999 for contributions to research, development, and applications in seismic analysis, and the design, construction, and retrofitting of bridges. Frank TalkeProfessor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 1999 for work in tribology and mechanics of magnetic storage systems, ink jet technology, and interferometric instrumentation, and for bridging industrial and academic research. Sia Nemat NasserProfessor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 2001 for for pioneering micromechanical modeling and novel experimental evaluations of the responses and failure modes of heterogenous solids and structures. Albert P. PisanoProfessor and Dean; Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Electrical & Computer Engineering Elected in 2001 for contributions to the design, fabrication, commercialization, and educational aspects of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). William KupermanAdjunct Professor Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Elected in 2004 for international leadership in the development and application of computational methods for ocean acoustics. Geert Schmid-SchnbeinProfessor Bioengineering Elected in 2005 for improvements to our understanding of how white blood cells are activated and the effects on medicine and pharmacology. Pradeep KhoslaChancellor, UC San Diego Elected in 2006 for contributions to design and sensor-based control in robotic systems for the assembly of high-precision electronics and for leadership in engineering education. Roberto PadovaniFaculty Affiliate Electrical & Computer Engineering Elected in 2006 for innovations in wireless communication, particularly the evolution of CDMA for wireless broadband data. Bernhard O. PalssonProfessor Bioengineering Elected in 2006 for scholarship, technological advances, and entrepreneurial activities in metabolic engineering. Peter M. AsbeckProfessor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Elected in 2007 for contributions to heterojunction bipolar transistor and integrated circuit technology. David WhelanProfessor of Practice, Electrical and Computer Engineering Elected in 2007 for his development and application of Air-Air Radar Imaging. Paul SiegelDistinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Director of the Center for Magnetic Recording Research Elected in 2008 for the invention and development of advanced coding techniques for digital recording systems. Don NormanDirector, The Design Lab at UC San Diego and Prof. Emeritus (recalled), Cognitive Science, Psychology, and Electrical and Computer Engineering, UC San Diego Elected in 2011 for development of design principles based on human cognition that enhance the interaction between people and technology. Terrence SejnowskiProfessor of Neurobiology, Adjunct Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, UCSD; Salk Institute for Biological Studies Elected in 2011 for contributions to artificial and real neural network algorithms and applying signal processing models to neuroscience. John Arthur OrcuttProfessor of Geophysics and Distinguished Researcher at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and Scripps Institution of Oceanography Elected in 2011 for international leadership in development of new ocean-observing infrastructure and environmental and geophysics research. Michael BaskesAdjunct Professor Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Elected in 2012 for contributions to the embedded atom method for predicting the structure and properties of metals and alloys. Juan C. LasherasDistinguished Professor Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Bioengineering Elected in 2012 for studies of atomization, turbulent mixing, and heat transfer and for the development of medical devices. Peter C. FarrellMember of the Council of Advisors of the Dean of the Jacobs School of Engineering Elected in 2012 for research and development of devices for treatment of sleep-disordered breathing. Robert SkeltonProfessor Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Elected in 2012 for contributions to robust control, system identification, and methodology for control-structure interaction. Nambirajan SeshadriProfessor of Practice, Electrical and Computer Engineering Elected in 2012 for contributions to wireless communications theory and development of mass market wireless technology. Gabriel M. RebeizWireless Communications Industry Chair Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering Elected in 2016 for contributions to radio frequency microelectromechanical systems (RF MEMS) and phased array technologies. Eric FullertonProfessor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and NanoEngineering Elected in 2018 for invention and development of multilayer, high-density magnetic recording media. Fred KocksFaculty Affiliate Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering National Academy of Sciences Ronald GrahamProfessor Computer Science & Engineering Elected in 1985 for contributions to discrete mathematics and its applications through fundamental results in graph theory, combinatorial number theory, scheduling theory, Ramsey theory, and approximation algorithms. Through his papers and many professional activities, he plays a key role in the fruitful exchange of ideas between mathematicians and computer scientists. Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
