Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Robert L. Sah Professor, Bioengineering Cartilage repair and tissue engineering; relationship between biomechanical function, metabolism, composition, and structure of cartilage during growth, aging, degeneration (osteoarthritis), repair, and regeneration. Professor Sah's goal is to pave the way for successful tissue-engineered total joint replacement for people who suffer cartilage damage due to injury or aging. His research focuses on how to regenerate cartilage tissue that will not only fill defects with load-bearing tissue, but also integrate with the surrounding host tissue. By combining quantitative experiments across multiple biological scales and systematic model-based analyses of biomechanics and biotransport, Sah has made seminal contributions to the multi-scale understanding of biomechanical function and dysfunction of articular cartilage during growth, aging and osteoarthritic degeneration, and to cartilage restoration by treatments with engineered tissues. Recently, his team fabricated a bioreactor which for the first time maintained a knee joint, demonstrated how mechanical stimuli regulated synthesis of the lubricant molecular, proteoglycan-4, and developed a joint-scale model of lubricant metabolism in the joint. These results help to elucidate the physiology of the normal joint. Understanding this natural environment is important to successful tissue-engineered implants because joints cells and tissues must work together to not only function mechanically but also adapt appropriately over time. A number of these studies are conducted in collaboration with UCSD School of Medicine faculty. Capsule Bio:Robert Sah has been a member of the bioengineering faculty at the UCSD Jacobs School since 1992. He earned his M.D. at Harvard Medical School in 1991 and Sc.D. from MIT in 1990. In 2006, Sah as named as a Professor by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and also awardee of the Van C. Mow Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. In addition, Sah has received the National Science Foundation Young Investigator Award, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Kappa Delta Award (twice), and Arthritis Foundation Hulda Irene Duggan Investigator Award. His "Mechanical Blueprint for Cartilage" has been cited as one of the Great Advances in Scientific Discovery in Disease and Injury Treatment by The Science Coalition. Email:rsah@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-534-0821WebsiteLab WebsiteInstitute Affiliations:Institute of Engineering in Medicine Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
