Faculty Profile | Jacobs School of Engineering Skip to main content COVID-19 Updates Read the fall 2020 plan for classroom operations, testing, and prevention. VIEW DETAILS Search Main navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings Careers History Contacts Map & Directions For Faculty & Staff Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Prospective Master's Degree Programs PhD Master's Degree for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Commercialization Industry Partnerships Research Centers Research Ethics Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows Students Admitted Students Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur COSMOS (Pre-College) Alumni Career Opportunities with Industry Master's Degree for Working Professionals Volunteer Make a Gift Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degree for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Faculty Profile Francisco Contijoch Asst Professor, Bioengineering Translational cardiovascular imaging techniques for advanced assessment of cardiovascular physiology and disease Contijochs primary research interests are focused on developing translational imaging techniques to better diagnose, monitor, and understand cardiac dysfunction and vascular disease. We develop and apply novel magnetic resonance (MRI), computed tomography (CT) and echocardiography imaging techniques to better visualize function of the cardiovascular system. We use these techniques to understand normal physiology, the processes which change during disease, and the response to treatments. We are particularly interested in the right ventricular dysfunction and pulmonary vascular disease. Populations we study include patients with pulmonary hypertension, right ventricular dysfunction in the presence of left ventricular failure, or adults with congenital heart disease. Capsule Bio: Contijoch earned his Ph.D. in bioengineerng in 2015 from the University of Pennsylvania. For his graduate research, he was awarded a Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) NIH National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB) Interfaces Fellowship as well as a National Institutes of Health National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Fellowship. His thesis work developed novel magnetic resonance (MR) image acquisition, reconstruction, and analysis techniques to assess regional cardiac function after myocardial infarction and quantify the physiologic impacts of arrhythmias. Dr. Contijoch then joined the UC San Diego School of Medicine as a postdoctoral fellow in Cardiology. Here he developed novel approaches to improve coronary computed tomography (CT) angiography. For his postdoctoral work, he received UCSD Frontiers of Innovation Scholars Postdoctoral Fellowship and the University of California Presidents Postdoctoral Fellowship. Contijoch also holds an appointment in the Department of Radiology at the UC San Diego School of Medicine. Email:fcontijoch@ucsd.edu Office Phone:858-822-0012WebsiteLab Website Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awards Faculty Scholars and Fellows 2020 REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SOCIAL MEDIA JACOBS SCHOOL HOME PROSPECTIVE UNDERGRAD INFO FACULTY DATABASE CONTACT US JACOBS SCHOOL IT SUPPORT FOR FACULTY & STAFF LOGOS & BRANDING UC SAN DIEGO DIRECTORY PRIVACY
