Tahar El-Korchi | WPI Skip to main content Heightened Restrictions on Campus Through B-Term/Fall Semester. Learn More about Heightened Restrictions Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute long form logo Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Tahar El-Korchi Civil & Environmental Engineering Professor Affiliated Department or Office:Environmental EngineeringArchitectural Engineering Education:BS University of New Hampshire 1980MS University of New Hampshire 1982PhD University of New Hampshire 1987 I enjoy my interactions with students at all levels of education, research, and mentoring, whether it be in the classroom, the lab, or in project work. I especially enjoy taking them to the Morocco Project Center and sharing with them the places where I grew up. Challenging the students to achieve higher levels of discovery is a thrill for me. This could be in the process of working with ASCE students to design a high-strength cement composite for the concrete canoe, working with MQP groups to design the new WPI Recreational Center or solve problems for the Panama Canal Authority, or working with IQP students in Fes Morocco to assist Moroccan mosaic artisans in developing more sustainable products and designs. Its so exciting to be surrounded by such smart and energetic people who are so curious. This job is great! Email tek@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 101 Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x5518 Research Interests Research Interests:High-Performance ConcreteFiber Cement CompositesPavement EngineeringStructural CompositesMaterials and Structural Testing Scholarly Work Wenyi Gong, Mingjiang Tao, Rajib B. Mallick, Tahar El-Korchi. Investigation of Moisture Susceptibility of Warm Mix Asphalt (WMA) Mixes Through Laboratory Mechanical Testing, Transportation Research Board, Washington, DC, 2012. J.S. Kim, Y. Kim, and T. El-Korchi. Fuzzy Identification of Seismically Excited Smart Systems, Structural Seismic Design Optimization and Earthquake Engineering: Formulations and Applications, IGI-Global, Inc., Nikos Lagaros (ed.). 2011. R. Mitchell, Y. Kim, and T. El-Korchi. Wavelet-Neuro-Fuzzy Control of Hybrid Building-ATMD System Under Seismic Excitations, Journal of Vibration Control; under review 2011. R. Mallick, T. El-Korchi. Pavement Engineering: Principles and Practice, CRC Press Taylor & Francis Group, 2009. H. Toutanji, T. El-Korchi. Relationship Between the Tensile and Compressive Strength of High Strength Cementitious Composites, ASTM Journal of Cement, Concrete, and Aggregates, Vol. 18, No. 2, 1996. Professional Highlights & Honors Professional Highlights &amp; Honors: News SEE MORE NEWS ABOUT TAHAR EL-KORCHI [GLOBAL Impact] Morocco Project Center December 16, 2019 WPIs UL Fire Protection Engineering Performance Lab allows for large scale tests and project based research. WPI Hosts Center for Global Public Safety Industry Stakeholders' Forum March 26, 2019 WPI to Compete in 2019 Solar Decathlon AFRICA January 28, 2019 Building Bridges November 19, 2015 WPI in the World Global Projects Program About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Library Offices Diversity & Inclusion WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
