Jeanine Denu Dudle | WPI Skip to main content Heightened Restrictions on Campus Through B-Term/Fall Semester. Learn More about Heightened Restrictions Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute long form logo Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeAcademicsFacultyFaculty Directory Jeanine Denu Dudle Civil & Environmental Engineering Associate Professor- Civil & Environmental Engineering Affiliated Department or Office:Environmental EngineeringEnvironmental & Sustainability Studies Education:BS Civil Engineering Cornell University 1993MS Environmental Engineering University of Massachusetts Amherst 1995PhD Civil Engineering University of Massachusetts Amherst 1999 My teaching and research interests focus on water quality and the safety of drinking waters. I study water from source to tap: where do contaminants originate from, what is their fate in the environment, and how do we engineer treatment processes to protect public health? I am particularly interested in preventing the transmission of pathogens through water. In source waters, I aim to identify sources of pollution and understand the fate, transport, and survival of those pollutants in the environment. We are interested in waters used for potable drinking water as well as recreational water bodies. On the treatment side, I have conducted research on alternative disinfection strategies that inactivate microorganisms while also reducing the formation of potentially harmful disinfection byproducts. Lastly, I work to improve water and sanitation options around the globe. My students have studied disease transmission in Africa, drinking water treatment options in Central America, and provision of water and sanitation in impoverished communities.At WPI, I work with undergraduate and graduate students to explore water quality issues through classroom activities, project work in the field and laboratory, and funded research. I enjoy bringing students to regional and national conferences to present their work, and to give them exposure to the broader water quality profession. Collectively, we can work toward a goal of providing safe water to people in the U.S. and globally. Email jddudle@wpi.edu Office Location Kaven Hall 209D Contact Phone:+1 (508) 8315000 x5142 Research Interests Research Interests:Water QualityNon-point Source PollutionFecal Source TrackingDrinking Water TreatmentSanitation in Developing Countries Scholarly Work Kulinkina, A.V.; Kosinski, K.C.; Plummer, J.D.; Durant, J.L.; Bosompem, K.M.; Adjei, M.N.; Griffiths, J.K.; Gute, D.M.; and Naumova, E.N. 2017. Indicators of improved water access in the context of schistosomiasis transmission in rural Eastern Region, Ghana. Science of the Total Environment, 579:17451755. - 2017 Kulinkina, A.V.; Kosinski, K.C.; Liss, A.; Adjei, M.N.; Ayamgah, G.A.; Webb, P.; Gute, D.M.; Plummer, J.D.; and Naumova, E.N. 2016. Piped water consumption in Ghana: A case study of temporal and spatial patterns of clean water demand relative to alternative water sources in rural small towns. Science of the Total Environment, 559: 291-301. - 2016 Charest, A.C.; Plummer, J.D.; Long, S.C.; Carducci, A.; Verani, M; and Sidhu, J.P.S. 2015. Global occurrence of Torque Teno virus in water systems. Journal of Water and Health, 13(3): 777-789. - 2015 Plummer, J.D.; Long, S.C.; Lou, Z.; and Charest, A.J. 2014. Torque Teno virus occurrence and relationship to bacterial and viral indicators in feces, wastewaters and waters in the United States. Environmental Engineering Science, 31(12): 671-680. - 2014 Plummer, J.D.; Long, S.C.; Charest, A.J.; and Roop, D.O. 2014. Bacterial and viral indicators of fecal contamination in drinking water. Journal of the American Water Works Association, 106(4): E200-E211. Professional Highlights & Honors Professional Highlights &amp; Honors: 2010Association of Environmental Engineering and Science Professors 2008Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) and Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching 2009American Water Works Association 2006WPI 2005WPI WPI in the World Global Projects Program About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Library Offices Diversity & Inclusion WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
