Faculty | Academics | WPI Skip to main content Heightened Restrictions on Campus Through B-Term/Fall Semester. Learn More about Heightened Restrictions Menu Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute short form logo Worcester Polytechnic Institute Worcester Polytechnic Institute long form logo Search First columnproject-based learningA Project-Based Education PBL in Higher Education Lifelong Impact academicsDegrees & Certificates Schools, Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Pre-Collegiate Outreach Online Graduate Programs The STEM Education Center Faculty Academic Calendar & Catalogs Second columnadmissions & aidUndergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Tuition & Financial Aid athletics the student experienceCommunity & Culture Housing & Dining Getting Involved Sports & Recreation Health & Wellness Career Development Resources & Support Third columnResearchAreas of Research Institutes & Centers Student Research Research Partnerships Research Resources news & events Give to WPI Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers & Partners Media Enter your keywords Common Searches: First columnWhat kind of jobs do graduates get? Where is WPI? Interested in Study Abroad? Second columnWhat research is WPI known for? What is project-based learning? Does WPI have sports? You are hereHomeacademicsFaculty Faculty In addition to being passionate about teaching, WPI professors are committed researchers and scholars with world-class credentials. They bring their research into the classroom and give students an opportunity to get involved. Like their students, they dont just believe in making the world a better place through science and technologytheyre doing it. WPI professors inspire and encourage their students as they drive them to higher achievement and greater success. They dont give students the answers; they show them how to find them. Academics FacultyFaculty AdvisingFaculty Advising Resources Student Counseling Accessibility Services for FacultyLetters of Accommodation Accessibility Guidelines & Resources Morgan Teaching & Learning CenterGraduate Student Resources PLA Training Funding Opportunities Teaching & Professional Development Meet the Team Writing ResourcesWriting & Communication Workshops Spring Institute Writing-Intensive Courses Project Resources Endowed Professorships Faculty Directory Faculty Collaborations Office of the ProvostFaculty GovernanceResources for Researchers 16current faculty have been Fulbright scholars 2016-17 #1faculty that best combine research and teaching The Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education (2016) 35 current faculty members have won the NSFCareer Award National Science Foundation (2020) 93%of full-time faculty have a PhD or terminal degree (2017-18) Faculty Awards WPI is proud to have some of the most talented and respected faculty in their respective fields and industries. Our faculty are regularly recognized for their successes by entities such as the National Academy of Engineering, the National Science Foundation, the Fulbright Program, and many professional societies. We also recognizes excellence through a variety of award programs that provide the opportunity to acknowledge faculty and to celebrate successes and share accomplishments with the entire WPI community. View Recent Awards about Faculty Awards Career Paths One of the best-known and most coveted young faculty honors is the five-year CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Eight of these career-establishing awards have recently been bestowed on WPI researchers, along with the university'sfirst U.S. Air Force Young Investigator Award.These rising starsrepresent a depth of expertise in areas such as math, chemical engineering, biology, learning sciences, and cybersecurity. Read More in the WPI Journal about Career Paths News SEE MORE NEWS Amity Manning and Sarah Olson WPI Awarded Grant to Develop Computational Models for Cell Division November 09, 2020 Ambassador H.E. Dr. Barfuor Adjei-Barwuah The Global School Virtual Event Series to Feature Ghanas Ambassador to U.S. November 04, 2020 Finding Entrepreneurial Leadership in Recording Studios October 28, 2020 Natalie Farny How many cells in that sample? October 26, 2020 Announcements December 10, 2020 Division of Talent & Inclusion Important Changes to COVID-19 Testing for Employees December 08, 2020 Office of the President Update on Start of C-Term/Spring Semester SEE MORE ANNOUNCEMENTS Media Coverage SEE ALL MEDIA COVERAGE Spectrum News 1 WPI Researchers Use Mice to Identify Drugs Which Reduce Size of Breast Cancer Tumors Provost Wole Soboyejo appeared on Spectrum News 1discussing his research in identifying targeted drugs that reduced the sizes of hard-to-treat breast cancer tumors in mice without inducing the toxic side effects that are typically associated with conventional chemotherapy. Telegram.com As I See It: Balancing Work and Life Also Balances Me Angela Rodriguez,assistant professor in the Social Science and Policy Studies department, wrote an account for theTelegram & Gazette's"As I See It" sectionon how our culture can more positively reshape its portrayal of the working mom and work-life-balance especially while in a pandemic. International Faculty & Scholars Services at: https://www.wpi.edu/offices/international-house/faculty WPI in the World Global Projects Program About WPI Bookstore Canvas Careers Directories Library Offices Diversity & Inclusion WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE 100 Institute Road Worcester, MA | 01609-2280 Ph: 508-831-5000 Contact Us | Coming to Campus Emergency Management | Accessibility Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Linkedin
