Class of 2024 Profile Toggle navigation Text-OnlySkip Main Navigation Apply Visit Map Interactive Printable JagTran Tracker JagNet JagMail Login Help Logins Students Faculty & Staff PAWS USAonline Directories Faculty/Staff One Stop Libraries A-Z Give About Students Parents Alumni Academics Research Athletics Apply Visit Directories Faculty/Staff One Stop Libraries A-Z Give Map Interactive Printable JagTran Tracker JagNet JagMail Login Help Logins Students Faculty & Staff PAWS USAonline About USA is a community of leaders and learners who support and challenge one another through academic experiences, research and service that advance the Gulf Coast region and the world. South encourages creativity and discovery by linking experiential learning to real-world applications. Read more Overview | A-Z Contact USA Visit USA Employment Our Campus History of USA Freshman Class Profile Social Media Speakers Bureau Community Engagement President Provost/Academic Affairs University Administration Board of Trustees USA Health Strategic Plan Tuition and Fees USA Brand Guide University Calendar Students Overview | A-Z Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Students USA One Stop Financial Aid Student Accounting Registrar Scholarships Student Services Course Catalog Academic Calendar Schedule of Classes Bulletin Bookstore Campus Recreation Student Activities Housing& Dining New Student Orientation South is a place where students discover and strengthen their passions, find their career paths, and form connections that result in lifelong relationships. At South, we look at the world and see things that we have the power to change, affect and shape together. So thats exactly what we do, every single day. Read more. Parents Overview | A-Z Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions USA One Stop Financial Aid Scholarships Directions and Maps Orientation Schedule Tuition and Fees Student Accounting Academic Calendar Net Price Calculator Housing& Dining Student Account Access Safety on Campus Student Health Services Campus Calendar College is an exciting time for you and your student, and we want to help you navigate through making your decision and finding resources for your student. Our website offers connections to assist you with admissions and financial aid, directions and scheduling a visit, and housing and dining options. Read more. Alumni The USA National Alumni Association connects Jaguar alumni across the world. The Association serves USA alumni by providing leadership opportunities, philanthropy, career services, chapter events and more. Stay connected to your University by joining the Alumni Association today. Read more. Overview | A-Z Alumni Connects Board of Directors Career Connects Contact Us Distinguished Alumni Awards Giving Connects Membership Connects South Connects Southerners South Magazine Student Scholarships Academics Overview | A-Z Colleges and Schools Undergraduate Majors Graduate Majors Online Programs Graduate School Honors College Global USA Continuing Education University Bulletin Academic Calendar Academic Advising and Support Baldwin County Campus Career Services Financial Aid First-Year Experience Registrars Office USA Bookstore Office of Academic Affairs A South education allows students to explore and develop interests that build the foundation of lifelong career paths. Our faculty are dedicated to helping students reach their maximum potential. And with more than 100 undergraduate and graduate degree programs, South provides plenty of avenues for discovery. Read more. Research USA researchers are problem-solvers and pioneers, and our faculty often collaborate across disciplines. The outcomes are high-quality scholarship, global partnerships, new information and opportunities, the transformation of traditional disciplines, and innovations that benefit society. Read more. Overview | A-Z Research/Economic Development Core Research Competencies Research Centers and Institutes Technology and Research Park Undergrad Research Program Postdoctoral Education Academic and Clinical Expertise Commercialization and Industry Collaboration Compliance and Assurance Sponsored Projects Admin. Research Communications, Development and Learning USA Start-Up Spotlights Athletics Souths student-athletes compete in 17 NCAA Division I sports, demonstrating excellence on the field and in the classroom. The Jaguars are a charter member of the Sun Belt Conference, and our alumni have gone on to notable professional careers in baseball, basketball, golf and football. Read more. Overview | A-Z Jaguar Athletics Purchase Tickets Athletics Calendar Photo Galleries Jaguar Apparel and Gifts Hall of Fame Athletics StaffDirectory Homecoming Campus Recreation Aquatics Facility Rental Membership Outdoor Adventures South Sports SouthFit Summer Camps Home About USA Class of 2024 Profile Skip Left Navigation Toggle navigationMenu About USA Home History of USA USA: A Brief History 50th Anniversary 1963 - 2013 Freshman Class Profiles Class of 2024 Class of 2023 Class of 2022 Class of 2021 Class of 2020 Class of 2019 South Says Social Media Office of the President Board of Trustees Contact USA The University of South Alabama Mobile, AL 36688 Ph: (251) 460-6101 Class of 2024 Profile The University of South Alabama is proud to welcome the members of the Class of 2024, which includes 1,577 new USA students. The class is diverse, with different life experiences that add their unique perspectives to our dynamic living and learning community. These students show leadership, share their talents, and serve their communities. The total 2020 student enrollment is 14,224. #WeAreSouth. Class of 2024: More Facts Incoming freshman international students are from Austria, Bangladesh, Canada, Chile, Iceland, India, Israel, Japan, Spain, Sweden and United Kingdom. Incoming freshman represent 30 states, including Alabama. #FreshmanFocus Stories:#FreshmanFocus is a series focused on incoming freshmen at the University of South Alabama. Move Brings Adventure, New Direction Finance Major Isn't All Business Mobile Actress Takes Stage at South Freshman Enjoys USA Homecoming Biloxi Student Turns to South Eagle Scout Tackles Hunger, Trivia on Random Things By the Numbers Number of countries represented outside of the United States Distinguished Young Women Scholars Number of new students in the Honors College Honors College Whiddon Scholars Mitchell Business Scholars National Merit Scholars Freshman Leadership Scholars Freshman Admissions Scholars Average ACT Score Average GPA Students with a 30-plus ACT scoreJaguar Dream Scholarships (need-based aid) Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Paws Usaonline JagMail JagTran UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH ALABAMA (251) 460-6101 MOBILE, ALABAMA 36688 Privacy Statement | Contact USA 2020 University of South Alabama Download the USA App For email, calendars, maps and more. USA Resources USA Bookstore Publication Services USA Health USA Baldwin County Ethics and Compliance Annual Security Report Emergency Information Accessibility Text Only JagMail PAWS USAonline Parking Services CampusCalendar Job Opportunities Mitchell Center Team USA Title IX HEERF Reporting
