Emeriti | Physics | University of Colorado Boulder Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Physics College of Arts and Sciences Physics Menu Main menu HomeAdmissionsAcademicsResearchEventsPeoplePartnersDiversityCOVID-19 Information for Future PhysicistsUndergradsGradsAlumniFaculty/StaffNIST-PREP Mobile menuHome Admissions Academics Research Events People Partners Diversity COVID-19 Future Physicists Undergrads Grads Alumni Faculty/Staff NIST-PREP BreadcrumbHome People Emeriti Emeriti Leave this field blank Neil Ashby Professor Emeritus - Theoretical Math Physics Physics Research Interest Theoretical math-physics David Bartlett Professor Emeritus - Experimental Gravity Physics (303) 492-6960 John Cooper Professor Emeritus - Experimental atomic and molecular physics Physics Joseph Dreitlen Professor Emeritus - Theoretical Quantum Physics Physics James Faller Professor Emeritus - Experimental Gravity Physics Precision measurement and gravitational physics. I am interested in precision measurement science particularly in the areas of fundamental constants i.e.:G,null experiments (where the answer is zero unless something exciting is to be found), and gravitational (wave) physics. I also have a continuing interest (since my student days) in the measurement of little g and its applications (given todays high precision and accuracy) to geophysics and geodynamics. fallerj@jila.colorado.edu 303-492-8509 William Ford Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interests: Professor Ford is an experimentalist in elementary particle physics. He currently collaborates with the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment operating at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) laboratory in Switzerland. The goals of this research are to elucidate the elementary interactions of quarks and leptons. The highlight to date is the 2012 discovery jointly by CMS and ATLAS of the Higgs boson. Working in collaboration with CU... william.ford@colorado.edu (303) 492-6149 Allan Franklin Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interests: History and philosophy of science, particularly the roles of experiment. Professor Franklin's research is on the history and philosophy of science, with particular emphasis on the role of experiment in physics. He has done historical studies on parity conconservation, CP-violation, and Millikan's oil drop experiment. On the philosophical side, he has worked on the Duhem-Quine problem, the question of how one can localize support or refutation, and on... allan.franklin@colorado.edu (303) 492-8610 Allen Hermann Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interest Experimental High Tc Superconductivity P. Dale Kunz Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interest Theoretical nuclear physics Kalyana T. Mahanthappa Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interests: High Energy Physics - Theoretical Interested in grand unification theories, fermion mixings and masses including charge fermions and neutrinos. My main motivation is to reduce the number of parameters needed in the standard model with the inclusion of massive neutrinos. I am pursuing this goal in the framework of grand unification theories with and without supersymmetry combined with a finite group as a family symmetry. In particular the... ktm@pizero.colorado.edu Stanley Miller Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interest Experimental nuclear physics Jerry Peterson Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interests: Collaborator in experiments measuring reactions induced by intermediate and high energy protons and pions. Using accelerators around the world and appropriate collaborations, I measure reactions with beams of protons or pions on complex nuclei, seeking the simple features. Recent solo work has used scaling relations as in the papers above as an attempt to unify these results. As a sideline, I work with nuclear astrophysics issues at very... jerry.peterson@colorado.edu (303) 492-1686 Paul Phillipson Professor Emeritus Physics Education: Ph.D. University of Chicago, 1962. Alfred P. Sloan Fellow 1965-67; European Molecular Biology Organization Research Fellow 1972-74; Visiting Professor, University of Vienna; Visiting Research Professor, Austrian Academy of Sciences. Professor Phillipson is interested in theoretical studies in nonlinear dynamics and biophysics. Many nonlinear processes are encapsulated by differential equations and by mappings. Research is directed toward development of computational algorithms and analytic techniques designed to facilitate understanding of solutions... Robert Ristinen Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interest Experimental Nuclear Physics Robert.Ristinen@colorado.edu Scott Robertson Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interests: I do experimental research in basic plasma physics, most of which is related to dust in plasmas. I am presently involved in two research areas. (1) The polar ionosphere contains meteoritic dust particles that are the nucleation sites for icy cloud particles. Students and I construct instruments for rockets that return data from 80-120 km altitude on the charge-to-mass ratio and number density of these particles so their... scott.robertson@colorado.edu (303) 492-6453 James Shephard Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interests: Nuclear - Theoretical James Smith Professor Adjoint (Retired) Physics Research Interests: Professor Smith's research interests are in experimental high energy physics, specifically decays of B mesons and search for supersymmetric particles. Professor Smith's research interests are in experimental high energy physics. As a member of the CLEO collaboration (Cornell), he was a primary author of several measurements of rare B meson decays. Among these was the first observation of the decays B -> pipi and B -> Kpi, which... jgsmith@pizero.colorado.edu John Taylor Professor Emeritus Walter Wyss Professor Emeritus Physics Research Interest Theoretical math-physics Faculty Affiliate Faculty Staff Advisors and Mentors Department Administration Emeriti Physics Mailing Address: Department of Physics 390 UCB University of Colorado Boulder, CO 80309-0390 Delivery Address: Department of Physics Duane Physics E1B32 2000 Colorado Ave Boulder, CO 80309-0390 Phone: (303) 492-6952Fax: (303) 492-3352Email:physics@colorado.eduDirections and ParkingAbout usZoom Virtual Office Hours University of Colorado Boulder Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy Legal & Trademarks Campus Map Return to the top of the page
