Robert McCarthy, Ph.D. | Benedictine | Chicago | Catholic Universities menu Account Login Admitted Current Students Faculty & Staff Veterans Why Give Give Now Library CampusSites: MesaCampus Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Search Admissions Degrees & Programs Athletics Alumni & Friends About & Locations Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Please click here for the latest information regarding Benedictine University's response to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. High School Students Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources AP Credits Dual Credit International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Transfer Students Transferring Credits Admissions Process Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Parent Resources International Students Admitted Students Admissions Events Graduate, Non-Traditional and Adult Students Admissions Process Admissions Events Available Programs Connect with a Counselor Strategic Partnerships International Students Featured Admissions Events Find Your Program Search by program name: Select a degree-level: All Programs Undergraduate Graduate Doctorate Select a program format: All Formats Traditional Non-Traditional Online Resources BenULive Course Schedule Checklists Academic Calendar Academic Catalogs The Office of the Registrar Placement Testing Academic Units Goodwin Collegeof Business College of Education & Health Services College ofLiberal Arts College ofScience Graduate,Adult and ProfessionalEducation Upcoming Events Connect with alumni, donors, and friends of the University at upcoming events. Upcoming Events Calendar Alumni & Friends Connect Volunteer Grants Office Events Annual Giving Give Our Mission Benedictine University is an inclusive academic community dedicated to teaching and learning, scholarship and service, truth and justice, as inspired by the Catholic intellectual tradition, the social teaching of the Church, and the principles of wisdom in the Rule of St. Benedict. Our Vision Benedictine University aspires to be a thought leader in Catholic higher education. We seek to provide a transformative and integrative educational experience grounded in Benedictine values, helping students shape lives of meaning and purpose as engaged citizens who care for the earth, welcome people of diverse faiths and cultures, and promote the common good. Learn More Accreditation Lisle Campus Map Campus Locations and Info General Consumer Information Fast Facts History and Heritage Media Contact Mission and Identity Non-Discrimination Policy Rent our Facilities Strategic Plan: BenU2020 Title IX Information University Leadership and Advisors University Rankings University Scorecard Work at Benedictine Campus Locations Main Campus in Lisle, IL Branch Campus in Mesa, AZ Online Programs Our Motto: Ut in omnibus glorificetur Deus That in all things God may be glorified. Popular search terms: apply online, campus map, admissions events, tuition, transcripts, calendar, graduation, scholarships, nursing, bookstore, registrar, academic calendar, athletics College of Science Biological Sciences Mathematical & Computational Sciences Physical Sciences Pre-Medical and Health Professions Graduate Programs Robert McCarthy, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Biology BenU Faculty since 2012 Ph.D. - Hominid Paleobiology, The George Washington University (2004) M.Phil. - Hominid Paleobiology, The George Washington University (2000) B.A. - Anthropology Rutgers University (1996) Courses Taught Human Anatomy, Human Anatomy Lab, Human Evolution and Gross Dissection Anatomy Research Area Evolution of human speech and language; growth and development of the primate and hominin skull, geometric morphometrics; comparative methods and primate life history. Current Research Project The Role of the Vocal Tract in Speech ProductionThe supralaryngeal vocal tract (the pharynx and oral cavity above the vocal cords) determines, to some extent, the acoustic properties of speech sounds. Radiographic studies have shown that the shape of the tongue, vocal tract, and lips is instrumental in producing the unique sounds of human speech. However, recent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies image patients in a supine position, which changes the position of the tongue and larynx in the neck. These images have been used to inform clinical diagnoses and to reconstruct the size and shape of the vocal tract in Neanderthals and other extinct human species. In this project, students will be assisting in the collection of MRI data using a new technology, upright MRI, which has the capability of imaging a patient in multiple views, including while sitting or standing. Students will then: (1) compare MR images of subjects in sitting and supine position; (2) record audio for subjects reading lists of words and short passages; (3) process and analyze acoustic data; and (4) statistically assess the relationship between vocal tract morphology and acoustic data. This project will teach students to collect and interpret MR images, to process acoustic data, and to use statistical techniques to study the relationship between vocal tract morphology and the sounds of human speech. Birck 336 | 630-829-6577 rmccarthy@ben.edu COS Research Home COS Faculty Research NSSRP Home College of Science William R. Law, Ph.D. Dean of the College of Science Tonia Rucker, Assistant to the Dean Email: trucker@ben.edu Phone: (630) 829-6187 Fax: (630) 829-6186 Dean's Office Hours: 8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Dean's Office Location: Birck Hall Room 119 A Catholic University in the Benedictine Tradition, founded in 1887. Learn more about our values and rich heritage. Benedictine University is a smoke and tobacco free campus. 2020 Benedictine University Resources Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report Emergency Information Non-Discrimination Policy Website Privacy Policy Work at Benedictine Student Complaint Process Illinois Board of Higher Education Institutional Complaint System Title IX Information Campus Locations Lisle Main Campus5700 College Rd. Lisle, IL 60532(630) 829-6000 Mesa Branch Campus225 E. Main Street Mesa, AZ 85201(602) 888-5500 International ProgramsChina and Vietnam Online Programs Also of InterestJames Fackenthal, Ph.D.Cheryl Mascarenhas, Ph.D.Thomas Wangler, Ph.D. University Events Dec 12 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM Jan 8 Dietetic Internship Program Virtual Open House Main Campus in Lisle 1:30 PM - 3:30 PM View Full Calendar University News Federal Grant Supports Multicultural Scholars Program in Dietetics Published: November 10, 2020Read More >> Pope Francis Appoints BenU Professor as Consultor on Interreligious Dialogue Published: October 27, 2020Read More >> BenU Professor Chairs Prestigious Accrediting Agency Published: October 20, 2020Read More >> Newsroom
